---
layout: page
base_url: Infernals
title: Introduction
group_order: 6
order: 1
next_url: Charms
next_title: Charms
---

Introduction
============

Character Creation
------------------

The Infernals gain access to the domains of the realm of Malfeas, named
for the Yozi they fall under: **Malfeas**, **Cecelyne, She Who Lives In
Her Name, Adorjan**, and **Ebon Dragon**.

There are more Yozi that may choose an Exalt, which may expand this
Supernatural Ability List.

The Infernal then gains an additional **Favored Ability** in the
Supernatural Ability associated with their patron Yozi.

**Green Sun Prince** The Infernal, by their nature, is respected and
commands the denizens of Malfeas. So long as their (Essence) rating is
higher than the demon’s, the Infernal may command a loose Demon to do
something as though they had it as an Ally.

However, this cannot directly interfere with orders, directions, or
other restrictions placed on the Demon by entities with an Essence
Rating higher than the Infernals, nor can it cause a summoned Demon to
go against their Summons bindings.

Infernal Sorcerers summoning do not need to make deals with Summoned
Demons with (Essence) less than them, and can simply command them to do
their bidding.

**Cursed Riches** Once a Story, the Infernal may use up to 20 RES of
Malfean resources to supplement their Projects. However, these cursed
goods cause the Infernal to roll **one additional complication roll**.

\[\[ May use them as Resources, but also cause problems\]\]

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

### Malfeas

\[\[Focuses on the concepts of **Raw Power,** **Domination**\]\]

### Cecelyne

\[\[Focuses on **Hypocrisy** and **Desire**\]\].

### She Who Lives In Her Name

\[\[Focuses on **Cold, Unfeeling Logic** and **Utilitarianism**\]\]

### Adorjan

\[\[Focuses on **Freedom from all Bindings** \]\]

### Ebon Dragon

\[\[Focuses on **Opposition** and **Retribution--**the ultimate
**Nemesis** (In the classical sense) \]\]

Castes
------

### Cecelyne

The Endless Desert spreads. By Spending a Strife Point, the Malefactor
can take over a Lesser God’s domain for a day, such as a river, a field,
or even a burgeoning village god.

The domain becomes filled and descreted with the endless desert, where
the Malefactor reigns. They hear all the prayers that would have been
made to that God.

In this blighted zone, all Summons of Demons may be made, regardless of
the time of day. As well, it becomes an entry point into the Endless
Desert, allowing those that desire to, or are hapless enough to fall
prey to the desert, to start the five days journey into Malfeas.

Strife Expression
-----------------

### Infernal Spite

The Infernal intimately knows failure, and feels its Spite close to
their heart.

Spend a Strife Point, and choose a Favored Ability, and then one of the
Nine Attributes. Immediately gain a number of **Spite** equal to their
chosen Ability’s rating.

For the remainder of the scene, the Infernal may decrease any
character’s number of successes equal to the number of **Spite**
expended, so long as they are using the targeted Attribute.

If the targeted character is ever forced to have negative successes,
they immediately **Botch** their roll.

The Infernal may regain their **Spite** by sacrificing their own
successes made when they use their chosen Favored Ability, at a rate of
1 success per 1 gained **Spite**.

Great Curse
-----------

Infernals are **Influenced by their Coadjugator,** the demon who merged
with the mortal to form the Infernal. They are often plagued by
**inhuman, alien** desires and actions.
