---
layout: page
base_url: Sidereals
title: Introduction
group_order: 5
order: 1
next_url: Charms
next_title: Charms
---

Introduction
============

Character Creation
------------------

The Sidereal gains access to separate aspects of reality, represented by
the Supernatural Abilities: **Journey, Serenity, Battles, Secrets,** and
**Endings.**

The Sidereal then gains an additional **Favored Ability** in the
Supernatural Ability associated with their Caste Name.

**Arcane Fate** Those who gaze upon the Sidereal with Resolve less than
or equal to the Sidereal’s (Essence) do not recognize that a person is
in front of their eyes.

**Resplendent Destinies**. The Sidereal may take up to (Essence)
Personas, which the Loom of Fate back up as having relevant backing,
allies, and backgrounds to be in a location.

**Astrology**. Using their Supernatural Abilities, Sidereals can weave
Projects into the actual loom, causing changes to happen and befall a
city or civilization according to their domain.

**Formal Training**. If the Sidereal has been trained in heaven, they
gather the following:

-   Language: Old Realm

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

### 

### Journey

\[\[Focuses on the concepts of **Space and Time**. Position,
placement\]\]

### Serenity

\[\[Focuses on **Emotion**, relations---between people, and
civilizations\]\].

### Battles

\[\[Focuses on Conflict. Internal, External. ---this will need to be
defined better\]\]

### Serenity

\[\[Focuses on Knowledge, **memory**, and what reality is. \]\]

### Endings

\[\[Focuses on the changing of times, the turning of the guard. -- this
needs better definitions \]\]

Castes
------

### Serenity

By spending a Strife Point, for the remainder of the scene Fate will
conspire to bring joy, happiness, revelry, and unification of a group of
people up to the size of a Village. All efforts to directly support this
endeavor receive (Essence) extra dice, while any direct efforts to
oppose this course of action take an (Essence)/2 (rounded up) penalty.

Strife Expression
-----------------

### Sidereal Fate

A Sidereal can manipulate Fate, making reality itself a tool for their
aid.

The Sidereal selects one of their Favored ability, and then can **change
the Target Number rolled** when that ability is used. They may either
reduce the target Number up to (Essence), or increase it by up to
(Essence)/2 for **all characters in the Scene.**

For example, an Essence 3 Sidereal targeting Archery could reduce all
Archery Rolls to Target Number 4, or increase it to a Target Number of
9.

1’s are always failures, and 10s are always double successes.

Who Becomes a Sidereal?
-----------------------

\[\[A Sidereal is there because they were Fated to be a Sidereal\]\]

Great Curse
-----------

Sidereals are plagued by the certainty of **Fate**. They become tangled
in the webs of reality. They may rebel against what Fate says, believing
that there is no way to actually mess up any plans. They may become cold
and detached to prevent the whims of reality from hurt
