---
layout: page
base_url: Lunars
title: Introduction
group_order: 4
order: 1
next_url: Charms
next_title: Charms
---

Introduction
============

Character Creation
------------------

The Lunar gains access to the Supernatural Abilities: **Shapeshifting,
Beasts, Spirits**, and **Wyld,** which may be Favored at character
creation.

The Lunar is granted an additional **Favored Ability** that must be
spent on one of these four Supernatural Abilities. This brings their
total number of Favored Abilities to 6.

The Lunar chooses an animalistic **Spirit Form**, which is an embodiment
of their soul--a symbol of their true self. It should hold some deep
personal meaning to the Exalt.

Choose a **Tell**, which is a distinctive characteristic that persists
through all forms of the Lunar. This could be a scar, tattoo, physical
characteristics, or something more supernatural like an oversized and
misshapen shadow.

1.  A Lunarâ€™s Anima banner, in addition to glowing, is a suffusing and
    > merging of her form with her Spirit Shape.

    > **Hybrid Body Rules:** You may either choose mutations totaling
    > two boons, or three boons and one bane that represent your Spirit
    > animal. The remaining aspects that are merged in become purely
    > aesthetic--wings that do not grant the ability to fly, for
    > example.

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

### Shapeshifting

\[\[ Rules for Shapeshifting.

By default (all can be altered through Shapeshifting charms):

-   No smaller than cat, no larger than horse

-   Mundane animals only (e.g. those without Essence. Creatures that
    > have been mutated by the Wyld are still okay, though that is
    > frowned upon by the Silver Pact)

-   Full transformations. All or nothing.

-   Takes a Secondary Action to perform

Lunars keep their same stats between forms, but may gain a temporary
mutation based on the form (e.g. wings).

You get (Shapeshifting) permanent forms that you can turn into, in
addition to Spirit Form. You gain them by taking the form that has been
discarded by a Great Change. (which is called a Sacred Hunt).

Typically a Great Change is through death--particularly with beasts--but
it is not limited to it. If you were walk with a human and witness them
in a turning point of life, you could hop into their old form.\]\]

Shapeshifting to forms grants boons and disadvantages. The boons are
typically just there, but if challenged provide +2 Successes for boons,
-2 successes for disadvantages.

#### Sample Projects

-   The Lunar may impart Mutations from their forms upon mortals.

### Beasts

\[\[Use and control over wild beasts of the land\]\]

### Spirits

\[\[Communication with spirits, walking the spirit realm, and such
spiritual things\]\]

### Wyld

\[\[Harvesting and using Chaos. Walking through, understanding, and
being fluid like the Wyld\]\]

Castes
------

\[\[Lunars can switch Castes at the start of a new Story? Does this add
anything?\]\]

### Full Moon

The Full Moon is a fearsome beast of physical might. By spending a
Strife Point, they gain the following for the remainder of the scene:

1.  +(Essence) dice to all Feats of strength

2.  +(Essence) for all Movement rolls.

    1.  In combat they may take a Dash action without suffering the DV
        > penalty.

3.  +5 END.

### Changing Moon

### No Moon

### Casteless

Strife Expression
-----------------

### Lunar Adaptability

The Lunar chooses two Attributes and fuses them. For the remainder of
the scene, so long as they describe how both Attributes help them in
their action, they may use the sum of the two attributes for their roll.

Who Becomes a Lunar?
--------------------

\[\[Those that throw off shackles

Great Curse
-----------

\[\[Lunars are troubled by their **Identity**. Are they man or beast? Do
they know who they are? Where do they belong? Are they influenced by
their spirit shape to be non-human?\]\]
