---
layout: page
base_url: Solars
title: Character Creation
group_order: 3
order: 2
prev_url: Introduction
prev_title: Introduction
next_url: Charms
next_title: Charms
---

Character Creation
==================

### Supernal

In addition to their five Favored Abilities, the Solar gains a
**Supernal** Ability.

A Supernal Ability is considered to be a Favored Ability for all aspects
of the game, such as for xp cost calculations. In addition, a Solar may
buy **Greater Charms and Martial Arts Techniques** that use their
Supernal Ability, even at Essence 1.

In the case of **Supernal Sorcery**, the Solar may be inducted into each
circle as though they were +2 Essence. They may enter into Sapphire
Circle at Essence 1, and Adamant Circle at Essence 3, gaining access to
their respective spells.

### Expanded Mote Pool

Solars gain an expanded Peripheral Mote pool: (Essence) + 5 additional
Motes, bringing the total to:

**Peripheral** (Essence) x3 + 20

### Defining Intimacy

A Solar *must* choose a Defining Intimacy as one of their three
intimacies.

### Anima Arsenal

The Solar may form an armament out of their own Anima. This armament is
equivalent of Artifact 2, including the bonus to stats. The armament is
clearly magical.

Projects may be performed to increase the Anima weapons to higher
Artifact ratings.

### Solar Excellency

By spending a Strife Point, the Solar may double a favored (or supernal)
ability for the Scene. This effect carries over to derived Static
values.

Soulfire
--------

The boundless essence of a Solar is, in itself, a dangerous weapon. With
certain charms and actions, the Solar can lance out their anima itself
as an extension of themselves.

This Soulfire is particularly threatening to Creatures of Darkness.

### Creatures of Darkness

These are any Spirits, demons, or other supernatural creatures whose
bodies and nature recoil at the sight of the Sun and his Chosen. The
following are a broad stroke classification of Creatures of Darkness:

-   Denizens of the **Underworld**, such as ghosts, specters, and
    zombies, and even its champions, the **Abyssal** Exalted.

-   Any **Spirits of the Night,** those gods and monsters of Creation
    that live in the shadows of reality. Luna and her chosen are *not*
    part of this classification.

-   Demons descended from the **Ebon Dragon**.

Being classified as a Creature of Darkness does not belay some
corruption of the heart—for example, many of the Night Spirits are
dutiful citizens and stewards of the Unconquered Sun—it only represents
that their very Essence cannot stand the incredible light in front of
them.

Castes
------

### Dawn

Spending a Strife Point, the Dawn immediately instills an emotion of
Fear, Awe, Intimidation, or similar emotion into up to (Essence)
targets. This may affect targets that normally do not feel said
emotions, such as golems and zombies.

### Zenith

Spending a Strife Point, the Zenith’s flaring anima becomes a weapon
against all those that shirk from the Sun’s Gaze for the entire Scene.
All Creatures of Darkness who end their action within Close Range of the
Zenith immediately take 5 Damage. Any creature or being who dies in the
bathing light of the Zenith cannot be raised as a zombie or hungry
ghost.

### Twilight

The Twilight’s mind brims with possibilities unseen to others. Spending
a Strife Point, the Twilight predicts a sequence of events that they,
and their companions, may take to bring about their desired result in a
scene. The Storyteller must accept this prediction as fact when crafting
the scene.

### Night

The Night caste excels at secrecy and subtlety. By Spending a Strife
Point the Night may choose at any time during the Scene to conceal or
reveal their Anima Banner, up to Burning Level.

### Eclipse

The Eclipse is the ultimate diplomat, and can bring even hardened
enemies to the table. Once per Story and by spending a Strife Point, the
Eclipse caste may force an armistice between two (or more) parties. For
the next scene, all involved are forced to meet peacefully, and cannot
attack each other during discussions.

In addition, an Eclipse may spend a Strife Point and sanctify an Oath
willingly made by Non-Player Characters. The NPC will not be able to
break said oath.
