---
layout: page
base_url: Solars
title: Solars
group_order: 0
order: 7
---

To be a Solar is to be a creature who knows no half-measures. They are
natural-born leaders, scholars, generals, and the architects of society.
Yet they are also its cruel tyrants, forcing others to follow in their
grand plan—regardless of their desires.

They are paragons of mankind, representing Humanity at its most
extremes. Whatever a Solar sets their mind to, it will be done.

### Heroes of Mankind

The Solars have always been at the forefront of Creation’s history. They
are the ones that gathered the other Exalts together, forming the
wonders of the First Age, the shining beacon of hope of all mankind.

However, they were also those that tore it down, whose greed and
self-righteousness spurred them to assault the gates of heaven and
strike at their patron, the Unconquered Son—the greatest of all Gods.

After the fall of mankind, the numbers of their host greatly
dwindled—they were both hunted by the other hosts out of fear and
retribution, regardless of their involvement in the Great War, and their
wounded patron chose very few to replace their numbers.

Their absence only heightened their ignoble legend—soon only those that
stormed the gates of heavenly Yu-Shan were remembered, not those that
fought against their brethren to prevent such an act. What few were
chosen in this time were regarded with fear and anger—warily regarded,
if not outright attacked on sight.

And yet, the Unconquered Sun, the one assaulted and most harmed by this
rebellion, still Exalts new Solars; giving of his own self to his
Chosen. Were the others not so afraid, might have the Great Contagion
not have been prevented? The constant erosion of the land in the Wyld
halted and turned back?

These are questions that might just be answered, as the Sun has started
Exalting his chosen in unprecedented number—a strain mighty on his
wounded soul; a strain that must have reason.

###  Exaltation

The Unconquered Sun grants his blessing to those who have an incredible
drive, a force of personality that would change their world no matter
what power they have.

Every exaltation is different, but the blessing of the Sun will often
come during a seminal moment of the mortal’s life, after they have
accomplished some great achievement that is theirs and theirs alone. The
moment is more often than not extremely obvious, as a great bonfire of
anima erupts, bathing the mortal in golden light.

The Unconquered Sun occasionally chooses to speak to his Chosen in their
moment of exaltation, giving them ancient wisdom and guidance. More
often than not, though, he simply communicates through a feeling of pure
emotion, ensuring that the Solar knows they were chosen for a reason.

### Solars as Protagonists

A Solar will naturally find themselves as the nexus point of
events—where they go, others will follow. They are natural leaders, even
if their style of leading is unorthodox, such as a Night Caste gathering
the masses silently.

Choosing to be a Solar means that you will often be the “main character”
of the story, on which everything else depends on.

### Solars as Antagonists

There is little more dangerous in the world than those who think they
are right, and who can sway others to believe in their vision.

The same qualities that make a Solar a natural Hero will also produce
some of the greatest villains. Simply to stand in the way of Solar’s
progress—even unintentionally—is enough to earn their ire.

They will never will think of themselves as being in the wrong. To them,
they are always the hero—no matter what drastic actions they take or
people they hurt along the way.

 **<span class="smallcaps">Solar Bonuses</span>**
------------------------------------------------

### Skilled Start

The Solar starts with **5 extra points** of abilities during character
creation. These points may raise abilities past **3**.

### Expanded Mote Pool

The Solar expands their mote pool permanently by **2 motes.**

### Supernal Force

A Solar is able to push themselves beyond normal capabilities. They may
purchase Greater Charms of their Caste at Essence 1, and Capstone Charms
of their Caste at Essence 3. Twilight Caste Solars may do the same with
Greater and Capstone Spells.

### Solar Excellency

At the cost of 1 Limit, the Solar may either add the used (Ability) or
(Essence) as immediate successes, whichever is higher. This may be used
for defensive values, for example increasing Evasion by the (Athletics)
score.

Soulfire
--------

The boundless essence of a Solar is, in itself, a dangerous weapon. With
certain charms and actions, the Solar can lance out their anima itself
as an extension of themselves.

This Soulfire is particularly threatening to Creatures of Darkness.

### Creatures of Darkness

These are any Spirits, demons, or other supernatural creatures whose
bodies and nature recoil at the sight of the Sun and his Chosen. The
following are a broad stroke classification of Creatures of Darkness:

-   Denizens of the Underworld, such as ghosts, specters, and zombies,
    and even its champions, the Abyssal Exalted.

-   Any Spirits of the Night, those gods and monsters of Creation that
    live in the shadows of reality. Luna and her chosen are not part of
    this classification.

-   Demons descended from the Ebon Dragon.

Being classified as a Creature of Darkness does not belay some
corruption of the heart—for example, many of the Night Spirits are
dutiful citizens and stewards of the Unconquered Sun—it only represents
that their very Essence cannot stand the incredible light in front of
them.

 Great Curse
-----------

Solars are often plagued and defined by their Ego and Control.
Caretakers of great power, they will see the problems and ills of the
world only in relationship to themselves. Great injustices that have
been generational problems will become their personal responsibility,
and a judgment on their mind until it has been solved.

### All-Consuming Grief

The horrors of the world become too much to bear, and the Solar shuts
down, weeping tears at the great injustices that they perceive. They may
turn to purifying rituals in an attempt to heal the soul of the world,
or even themselves.

### Contempt of the Virtuous

The world may be beyond saving, but those around the Solar must be
unfaltering in their purity. No slight against purity, no matter how
small, should be upheld in the presence of the Solar. If lectures and
kindness will not work, then other methods of reprimands must.

### Crushing Doubt

The burden of the world is too much for the Solar to take, and they
become filled with self-doubt and depression. The simplest of tasks
becomes unbearable, the smallest of responsibilities just a chance to
fail yet again.

### Deliberate Cruelty

The world is a broken place, why fight it any longer? The Solar snaps at
those closest to them, speaking words of biting retort that pierce
hearts with unerring accuracy and painful depths.

### Heart of Flint

Caring for others is too much of a hassle, and too much pain. The Solar
becomes a machine of pure logic, following a path devoid of empathy and
feeling.

 **<span class="smallcaps">Solar Castes</span>**
-----------------------------------------------

### Dawn

The Dawn Caste come from those of raw military strength—warriors,
generals, strategists, rebel fighters. Their physical might is
unparalleled, nor their ability to coordinate and command others.

#### Fearsome Visage

Reflexively spend 2 Anima. Instill an emotion of Fear, Awe,
Intimidation, or similar into a target. This may affect targets that
normally do not feel said emotions, such as golems and zombies.

#### *Daybreak*

Reflexively Spend 4 Anima. Nothing can outrun the advancing light of a
sunrise. Immediately Strike your target again. This does not take an
action.

### Zenith

Priests, zealots, and orators embody the spirit of the Zenith, who gaze
upon their inevitable followers with the fire of the Sun in their
hearts, spurring them forward into the shadows.

#### Divine Mandate

Spend 2 Anima. The mark of the Sun appears on their brow of the Zenith,
and All ghosts, spirits, gods, or any other dematerialized beings are
forced to revealing themselves for the Scene. Additionally, the Zenith
may send any willing or subdued ghosts directly to Lethe, where they may
reenter the cycle of reincarnation.

#### Passion of the Heart

The Zenith’s words *will be heard.* Once per Session, spend 5 Anima, and
force all who witness them in their moment to gain one of their
Intimacies, at least for a day.

### Twilight

Knowledge—in all its forms—is the domain of the Twilight Caste. They are
undoubted geniuses in whatever fields they choose to study: engineers,
doctors, and scholars.

#### Brilliant Mind

Once per Session, spend 3 Anima. The Twilight’s mind brims with
possibilities they see unfolding before them. Predict a sequence of
events that will happen in the scene, which is now considered a fact so
long as there is no interference.

#### *Summoner’s Call*

Spend 4 Anima. Immediately summon a lesser Elemental or demon to assist
you for the Day. They act as a 3-dot Ally.

###  Night

Even when the Sun sets, his presence can be felt everywhere. The Night
caste embody divine determination: they will do whatever needs to be
done, in any way necessary.

#### *Silent Presence*

Reflexively spending 2 Anima, the Night Caste folds their essence
inwards, using it to muffle all of their movements in the Scene. No
sound is uttered, nor footsteps imprinted into the dirt. No
circumstantial evidence of the Solar will exist after the scene.

#### Shadow Watch

Once per Session, the Night Caste may immediately Recall a Fact of
something they have done in the past that immediately benefits them
now—such as tailing someone to discover a Secret, or planting false
evidence.

### Eclipse

The Eclipse entreaty with all, ensuring that all are heard and
understood. They are the diplomats, peacemakers, and merchants of the
world, bridging it together into a beautiful harmony—one that they
officiate.

#### *Oath-Binder*

Spend 4 Anima, and sanctify an Oath made between willing characters. Any
who have sworn this oath will suffer Divine, Storyteller-driven
retribution—including the Player Characters.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oathbreaker</p>
<p>Characters who break their oaths will find laws of reality working against them. They often won’t be able perform tasks in ways they wish to, or will find massive Disadvantages to their actions.</p>
<p>However, this should be used as a Story Device, not a punishment. Don’t blindly apply the disadvantages—make sure it only pops up in momentous situations.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Armistice

The Eclipse is the ultimate diplomat, and can bring even hardened
enemies to the table. Once per Story, spend 5 Anima and force an
armistice between two (or more) parties. For the next scene, all
involved are forced to meet peacefully, and cannot attack each other
during discussions.

Dawn Charms
-----------

Lesser

### Armored Scout’s Invigoration

**Type:** Permanent

Armor becomes like a second skin to the Solar. At the moment of
purchasing, permanently reduce either the Evasion or Block penalty of
any worn armor by 1, to a minimum of 0. This charm may be repurchased as
a Greater and then Capstone Charm.

### Burning Essence Strike

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 1m

The Solar infuses their weapon and/or projectile in the burning Soulfire
of their golden anima, passing through the very soul of their target.

Spirits, such as ghosts, elementals, and gods have their Immaterial
defense negated. As well, Creatures of Darkness suffer an additional
(+Essence) damage from the attack.

### Solar Cross-Counter

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2a

After taking damage from an opponent in their Zone, the Solar may
reflexively lash out and deal the same amount of damage to the opponent,
capped at (Essence)x3.

### Diamond-Body Mastery

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solar’s body becomes resistant to the world around them. You may
negate up to (Essence)x2 damage from Environmental effects. This
includes any moderate incidental scenery damage, such as crashing
through glass windows or falling five stories.

### Solar Spike

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 2m

Conjuring the deepest Intimacy, the Solar lashes out with a spike of
Soulfire which cascades from enemy to enemy.

Make an (Essence + Integrity) roll. All enemies in the Zone with an
Essence lower than the result suffers (Essence) damage, as the bolt of
light shines through and pierces through all of them. Creatures of
Darkness hit by the Solar Spike suffer an extra (+2) damage.

###  Eagle-Wing Style

**Type:** Supplemental; Scene  
**Cost:** 1m

By using the barest of scenery, be it lampposts, delicate tree branches,
or even coins the Solar carries with them to launch against, and may
leap effortlessly through the air. So long as there is the most minimum
of solid mass to propel themselves against, they may use it to keep
leaping upwards.

### Shadow over Water

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** (1/2/4m)

Spend Motes to clear Disadvantages to Defense, Soak, or Evasion. 1m for
all Minor, 2m for all Moderate and lower, or 4m for all Disadvantages.

### Stubborn Boar Stance

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 1m

The Solar stands as an indomitable barrier against all who would stand
against them. Gain +(Essence) against any effects to knockback, pull,
restrain, or otherwise physically alters the Exalt’s movement.

### Supernal Force

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** (1m) per

Conjuring the deepest Intimacy, the Solar lashes out with a spike of
Soulfire which cascades from enemy to enemy.

Make an (Essence + Integrity) roll. All enemies in the Zone with an
Essence lower than the result suffers (Essence) damage. Creatures of
Darkness hit by the Solar Spike suffer an extra (+2) damage.

Greater

### Accuracy Without Distance

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 2m

Distance means nothing to the Solar, fully able to target their quarry
no matter how far they are.

When performing a ranged Attack, ignore any penalties caused by
distance. This allows the Exalt to attack across any number of Zone
boundaries. Without the use of other Powers, the quarry must still be
perceived, and a clear shot still available.

### Burning Mein

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar gains momentum as the battle mounts. So long as they can see
the battle is not fruitless, they can keep moving forward.

When damaging a foe that is not a Lesser Foe, regain (Essence)x2 Health.

### Cancel the Apocalypse

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2a

On a successful Hit vs. Evasion, the Exalt strikes at the foe, stopping
an ongoing Scene-effect the target has initiated, and preventing them
restarting it the next Round.

This may also be used to halt a Sorcerer from completing a Spell.

### Cutting Circle of Destruction

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar’s weapon careens through the air, striking target after
target.

The Solar may target up to (Essence) enemies with their Maneuver or
Strike, dealing full damage to each of them so long as each target is a
valid target.

### Fiery Solar Chakram

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 2a

Gathering anima into a burning and crackling aura, their weapon is
infused with Soulfire and is hurled at their enemy.

On a Decisive Attack, Gain (+Essence) successes on both the Accuracy and
damage rolls. If the target is a Creature of Darkness, deal an
additional (+Essence) damage.

###  Whispered Prayers of Retribution

**Type:** Supplemental; Scene  
**Cost:** 3a

Wrapping all of the emotions, horrors, and pain the Solar has seen into
their weapon, they pierce it into their target and force them to
experience it all in a flashing moment.

On a successful Action (or strike) against the target’s Defense, the
target suffers through visions and the emotions imparted on them.

For the remainder of the Scene, the target must roll their (Wits +
Integrity) vs. the Solar’s (Essence) in order to take any action, or
else become overwhelmed by the raw emotions.

Dawn Caste Solars can impose fear and intimidation even to emotionless
beings, and Zenith can cause awe and grief.

Capstone

### Searing Sunfire Interdiction

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 3a

The Solar focuses all their Wrath into a single shot, and selects a
target Zone.

A Strike of solid Soulfire crashes down at the targeted location,
dealing (Essence) x5 damage to all foes within the Zone. They cannot
defend or reduce the damage from this attack. For the remainder of the
scene, the affected area becomes bathed in Soulfire Environmental
Damage. (Essence) per Round.

Zenith Charms
-------------

Lesser

### Certainty of Form

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 1m per target  
**Prerequisite:** Integrity Protection Prana (Universal Charm)

The Solar protects not only themselves, but their certainty of will
extends to others.

Grant the effects of *Integrity Protection Prana* for the scene to up to
(Essence) x2 targets.

### Heart-Compelling Method

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

Perform a Social roll vs. Resolve against a target. If successful, the
Solar forces the target character to take an action, *any action*, that
is in alignment with one of their Intimacies or Emotions.

### Peril-Demanding Haste

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 1m

On successfully convincing a target to perform an Inconvenient task, the
Solar immediately Instills an emotion of “impending peril.” The target
will complete the task in half of the normal time, if at all physically
possible.

### Prophet of Seventeen Cycles

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2m

Once a Session, the Player may introduce a complication into an
antagonist’s plans, plots, or ongoing Project. This operates under the
same general principles of “Recall a Fact:” the declaration must be
self-consistent with what has been shown to operate in this world.

The Player should describe how their character activates this
complication.

### Sun King Radiance

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 1m

The Solar radiates their strength to others. Choose up to (Essence) x2
targets, and one of the Solar’s Intimacies. So long as the target is
acting in accordance with the Intimacy, they may use the Resolve of the
Solar instead of their own.

###  Tireless Burden

**Type:** Permanent

Through sheer force of will, the Solar may keep their body healthy,
hale, and moving past its natural limits. They may go without sleep for
an entire week at no consequences (except perhaps to their mood.)

After a week of no sleep, the Solar gains an Intimacy of “Desire to
sleep,” and must sleep normally for at least three consecutive nights to
remove this temporary Intimacy.

### Worshipful Lackey Acquisition

**Type:** Reflexive; Week  
**Cost:** 2m

After successfully completing an Encounter Scene with all Key Issues
under their Party’s Control, those who observed the scene become
enthralled by the Exalt, willing to nearly anything.

Any who has a Resolve less than the Exalt’s Essence gains a positive
Intimacy towards the Exalt for the next week, and will perform any
Inconvenient tasks when asked without the need of a roll.

### Underling-Promoting Touch

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 3a

The Solar may uplifts a servant to act in their stead, designating their
role as a ruler, guide, or other form of leadership to a group of
people. While the target is acting in given role, and in accordance with
the Solar’s Intimacies, all who gaze on them will instinctively know
they work on behalf of the Solar.

In addition, the target may use the Bureaucracy, Command, and/or Resolve
of the Solar in place of their own while operating in their given
capacity.

The Solar may only designate one target at a time for this effect. They
may choose to rescind their blessing, or perform a 10 Res. Project to
make this effect permanent, either of which would allow them to bless a
new target.

Greater

### Accord of the Unbreakable Spirit

**Type:** Simple; Week  
**Cost:** 3m

Choose one of your Intimacies, and spend an hour leading a group of up
to 10 people in meditation, prayer, or other such mind-cleansing
activities. For the remainder of the week, the group will consider any
Influence against the chosen Intimacy to be Unacceptable Influence.

Only one Intimacy may be reinforced at a time through this method.

### Asp Bites its Tail

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2m

Disparaging the Lawgiver, their name or their Intimacies is foolish at
best. Whenever the Solar witnesses such an event, they may speak subtle
words to all those who listen and making the accuser seem the fool.

Contest the social action with (Essence) extra dice. If there are more
successes than the aggressor’s roll, the result of the intended action
turns upon the aggressor instead. If they were trying to incriminate the
Solar, they instead become incriminated.

This Charm automatically succeeds against targets with an Essence lower
than the Solar’s.

### Commanding Words

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 1a

Drawing from their divine rule, a Solar makes a quick command, from
which all snap to attention and must obey.

The Solar targets a Mortal, or a Yu-Shan spirit of Essence less than the
Solar. Any inconvenient task the Solar commands will be performed to the
best of their abilities, without question nor needed roll. If the target
is some other entity, the Solar must succeed on a Social roll vs.
Resolve roll for this to take effect.

If a given task would run counter their intimacies, or the task is
otherwise considered unacceptable influence, this charm automatically
fails and the target is broken from the Solar’s influence.

### Fear-Banishing Aura

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene  
**Cost:** 2a

Allies need only look to the Solar to steady their nerves and keep their
wits together. Immediately banish fear, panic, and other similar
emotions from all allies within Medium Range of the Solar, and force any
future attempts to fail for the remainder of the scene.

This Charm does not protect against the Dawn Caste’s Anima Power.

### Inquisitor’s Unfailing Notice

**Type:** Permanent

The Solar is instinctively and subconsciously aware of any actions of
thievery or Stealth performed by those in their presence who are below
(Essence). The exact target, circumstances, nor direction is not
disclosed, simply the fact that it is happening.

The Storyteller should only inform the Player of significant moments of
such events, otherwise only answering when asked.

### Irresistible Questioning Technique

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solar’s unquestioning gaze will make even the most unwilling talk.
Ask a specific question, and make an Awareness Roll against the target’s
Resolve. If successful, the target must answer and speak the truth to
that particular question.

### Majestic Radiant Presence

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2m

None may speak before the Lawgiver’s voice has been heard.

Interrupt a target before or during a social action, such as speaking,
performing, using Social Influence, or walking up to a podium. The Solar
may immediately take their own social action, forcing the target to wait
until the Solar is done.

Any who observes this interruption with an (Essence) less than the
Solar’s own (Essence) will develop a temporary negative Intimacy of
“disdain” towards the target. This may also affect the target
themselves.

### Respect-Commanding Attitude

**Type:** Supplemental; Scene  
**Cost**: 2m

Once a Solar has begun a speech, performance, or other social action,
those listening become unable to interrupt. Even their enemies must
pause at the force of conviction the Solar, unable to take direct action
against the Solar.

This charm only affects those with (Essence) less than the Solar’s.

### Prophet-Uplifting Evocation

**Type:** Permanent

You may now perform Projects to grant the Rank 4
[Endowment](/System/The Exalted/#supernatural-merits) Merit to those with significant ties
to the character, granting them access to Universal Charms.

Capstone

Twilight Charms
---------------

Lesser

### Chaos-Resistance Preparation

**Type:** Simple; (Essence) Weeks  
**Cost:** 3m

Reinforce an object no larger than (Essence) meters in its largest
dimension.

For (Essence) Weeks, that object, and anything inside of it, become
resistant to the chaotic effects of the Wyld, gaining (Essence)
difficulty to warp it.

### Durability-Enhancing Technique

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

The Exalt may reinforce an object—no more than (Essence) meters in its
largest dimension—and make it nigh unbreakable.

While reinforced, the object is no longer considered “mundane,” and
increases the difficulty to break or otherwise destroy it by (Essence).

A Project may be performed to make this enhancement permanent.

### Enlightened Touch Insight

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 1m

By touching or analyzing an object for a moment, the Solar can surmise
its recent history and its usage.

The Solar reconstructs the scene in their mind, effectively gaining a
vision of what happened surrounding the object in moments of great
emotion and action.

### Harmonious Academic Methodology

**Type:** Simple; Month  
**Cost:** 2m

Targeting a non-Player individual, organization, or such group, the
Solar may grant insight into their own knowledge and methodologies in a
way that resonates in their minds.

Choose one of the character’s Abilities, and the target’s tasks in that
specialty will run smoother and be completed faster than otherwise. If
they must roll, they gain +4 dice, capped at 12 dice.

Up to (Essence) blessings may be active at one time.

### 

###  Master Plan <span class="smallcaps">Revelation</span>

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2m

Once per story, the Player may declare their character predicted a
certain event, and accordingly planned for it. and accordingly planned
for a certain event, and have somehow twisted it to their own benefit.
Evidence provided turns out to be a planted fake; eyewitnesses have
already been successfully bribed.

This charm represents the Solar’s mastermind-level planning and
cunning—essentially revealing hidden information to the Players
themselves. As such, it can not actually change anything that has been
firmly established, but it can complicate or muddy the veracity of those
“facts.”

### Order-Affirming Blow

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solar knows the effects of the Wyld, Underworld, and other such
places that might try to forcibly change the targets.

So long as the effects have occurred within the last week, and not
deeply ingrained into the soul of the subject, the Solar may banish the
changes.

### Truth-Rendering Gaze

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 1m

Roll (Insight + Lore) against a target’s Resolve. On a success, learn
insight on the nature of a creature, such as its typical attack
patterns, to migration patterns. Following the same rules as “Read
Intentions,” the Player asks a specific question that the Storyteller
must answer truthfully.

Greater

### Inspection of Flaw

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2m

Once per Session, the Player may Recall a Fact about a target object or
institution that may be exploited to the character’s advantage
immediately and without a roll. (This may be used to “correct” a failed
roll.)

### Impurity-Hammering Blow

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2m

By infusing their methods with their own burning anima, the Solar can
quickly purify any mundane, raw material into pure versions of its type.

The Solar may not convert more than their own body weight in a single
day.

On gaining Resources in the form of raw, impure materials, the Solar may
double its normal Resource value.

### Marvelous Machinery

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 3a

The Solar imbues a statue, complex machinery, or even inert ancient
working with their very Essence—so long as it is not currently bound to
a hostile entity. For the Scene the Solar may control this imbued object
as though it were an extension of their body.

Hostile entities may attempt to wrest control from the object by
performing a contested Craft Roll.

### Timely Prototype

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2a

On activation of this charm, the Exalt may immediately create a Craft
Project prototype, such as an Artifact, for the task at hand. The
Obstruction roll(s) are immediately resolved to represent flaws, quirks,
or other oddities that develop from forcing a prototype into use so
quickly and without testing. The prototype will always be able to
perform the desired task, regardless of the rolls.

The Player may choose to go into Resource debt (up to 3 Res, 1 Keystone)
to activate this charm.

*Permanent Effect:* On purchasing this charm, and again at the start of
each Story, the Exalt gains an additional +2 Res, which may only be used
only for Craft Projects.

### 

###  Will-Shattering Riddle

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar Poses a terrible Paradox to the target, forcing them to be
involved and distracted solving it.

Roll a contested (Int. + Lore). If the target fails, they suffer from
being distracted, consumed by trying to solve the puzzle. They lose (3)
dice from any awareness rolls, and must make a (Int + Lore) each round
until the beat the Solar’s roll to take an action. In combat, they may
only make one action per round.

Only one character may be subjected to this per Scene.

Characters with Intelligence of 1 are not affected, nor mindless
characters.

### Wyld-Shaping Technique

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 3a

The Solar imposes their will upon the Wyld, and it must obey.

Once a story, gain +2 Resources. As well, the Solar may create projects
in the Wyld without suffering any Opposition Modifiers from the land.

Creating Manses and other places of Power from the Wyld becomes a valid
Project.

Capstone

Night Charms
------------

Lesser

### Burning Corona

**Type:** Reflexive; (Scene)  
**Cost:** 1a

The Solar flares a glimpse of their anima at just the right moment,
temporarily blinding their opponent as they attack them, raising their
Evasion by (Essence)

If the target is of (Essence) less than the Solar, the target becomes
blinded for the remainder of the Scene.

### Flawlessly Impenetrable Disguise

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 2m

Through clever trickery, the Solar manages to craft a disguise that
appears to break physical limitations, such as appearing shorter,
gaining extreme mutations such as functional extra pairs of arms, or
gain a voice that could not come from their body.

While impressive and fooling to all inspection—even detailed—it is still
just well-crafted trickery.

### Genius Palate Summation

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 1m

The emotions and intentions of an individual bleed through to their
craftsmanship. Upon eating, imbibing, or otherwise interacting with food
or drink prepared or handled by an individual, make a Read Intentions
Action against them.

### Mist on Water

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 1m

With a swift motion, the Solar disrupts the chakras necessary for
thought and sound, rendering the target partially paralyzed and
importantly—unable to make sound.

With either a successful touch or hit, force the target to lose their
next action, and become silenced for the next (Essence)x15 minutes.

If used in a Combat or Encounter, this silence lasts (Essence) Rounds
instead.

### Observer-Deceiving Attack

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 1m

Through misdirection, conceal an action or attack that the Exalt makes.
Characters must exceed a (Wits + Awareness) roll against the number of
successes of this action.

### Shadow-Crossing Leap

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2a

The Exalt may cross a threshold without disturbing anything between the
two locations. They need not set a foot down, nor do they trip any
wires, disturb dust, or even alter the air with their passing. Doors and
windows remain shut, as though they had not passed through them.

Only solid walls without any opening may halt their passage from one
location to the next.

### Seven Shadows Evasion

**Type:** Reflexive  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar is as swift as the shadows they cast, and may Increase their
Evasion against an attack by (Essence).

### Sound and Scent Banishing Attitude

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene  
**Cost:** 3m

The Solar focuses their attempts at stealth onto a specific, non-visual
sense, completely eliminating it from the equation. Their footsteps may
become silent, or their scent hidden from tracking dogs.

### Statue Spirit Stillness

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene  
**Cost:** 1m

The Solar may remain as completely stationary as long as necessary. They
show no outward signs of movement, not even breathing.

### Sunlight Bleeding Away

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 1a

Take a Stealth Maneuver action vs. a Target’s (Wits + Awareness). On
success, you disappear from their sight and become unseen until your
next Action.

Multiple targets may be chosen at the same time, but doing so causes a
Moderate Disadvantage.

Greater

### A Will is a Way

Type: Permanent

Even if the way forward seems to be impossible, the Solar will find a
path to their destination. Once per Story, the Player declares that they
and their companions will arrive at the specified place, no matter the
obstruction, and the Storyteller must open a path for them to follow.

### Eye of the Unconquered Sun

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 3a

For a Moment, the Caste Mark of the Solar flares up for all to see and
becomes a focal lens for the Inner eye, revealing all to the Lawgiver.
For that brief moment, all characters in the scene can be sensed, giving
a snapshot of their current position, and movement.

As well, roll a (Wits + Awareness). All characters in the scene with
(Essence) less or equal to the roll are valid targets for any future
perception during the scene, regardless of obstacles such as hiding
behind walls.

### Guardian Fog Approach

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

Touch up to (Essence) companions, bringing them into the shadows with
you. You may make a Steal roll for the entire group.

### Immunity to Everything Technique

**Type:** Permanent

Once a Solar has been exposed to a toxin, poison, or illness—and
survived—they never need worry about suffering ill effects from it
again.

### Living Pulse Perception

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2a

By focusing all their senses into a single point, the Solar can gather a
trace of all living, breathing, and/or moving creatures.

This allows a roll against all hidden creatures that breathe, live, or
are currently in motion in the current scene, and eliminates up to
(Essence) penalties that would be applied against the roll.

### One Extra Step

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 2a

Once per Scene, the Exalt may reach a Position or Target they can
observe, so long as a possible path exists.

### Perfect Mirror

**Type:** Simple; Week  
**Cost:** 3a

Choose a target that the Solar has studied for at least a day, and then
become a perfect replica. All mannerisms and characteristics of the
target are replicated, and a surface level of knowledge and abilities
the target knows—enough to fool all but the most intimate of
acquaintances.

Even supernatural effects—such as a Anima flare, is emulated with
Essence-based illusions.

### Phantom Rider’s Retreat

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solar leads their party to safety. So long as their mode of
transportation does not halt movement, their pursuers will be unable to
catch them.

The Solar cannot rest while the effects of this charm are active, nor
regain motes.

### The Mark of Judgment

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar marks a specific target they can perceive, burning their
target’s soul into their mind.

For the remainder of the scene, the target’s location will be known to
the Solar, no matter their distance nor intervening environmental
factors.

Capstone

Eclipse Charms
--------------

Lesser

### Deft Official’s Way

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 1m

After observing a group or organization in motion, the Solar may easily
pick out who would be receptive to a specified social activity, such as
socializing, intimidation, or bribery.

### Effective Counterargument

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene  
**Cost:** 1a

Once per scene, the Exalt may interrupt an other’s action to cajole,
sway, or otherwise persuade a target, rolling their own roll with
+(Essence) extra dice.

So long as the Exalt’s roll is greater than the opponent’s, the target
and those with similar mindset will gain a *negative* Intimacy towards
the original argument, inverting the intent.

### Enemy-Castigating Solar Judgment

**Type:** Supplemental  
**Cost:** 1a

Supplement a social action against a Creature of Darkness with an
additional +3 dice.

### Fury-Inciting Speech

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2a

Once a mob has been formed with emotions of rage, fury, or likewise, the
Solar can direct them as though they were an extension of their own
morals.

The Player directs the mob to outlet their anger. For every 3 successes
on a Social roll, the Solar can direct to the mob to take a distinct
action related to their anger, be it to burn a Guild Hall, capture a
Magistrate, or storm the docks.

### Semantic Argument Technique

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solars are known as Lawmaker, and such knowledge is intrinsic to
their very nature. During arguments involving law, procedure, or other
methodology, they gain +3 dice.

Once per Story the Solar may Recall Fact by revealing an arcane or
forgotten law without needing a roll.

### 

###  Spurious Ownership

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2a

With the force of certainty and their unconsciously regal presence,
whatever the Solar speaks claims ownership of is instinctively believed.

With a successful Social Roll vs. target’s Resolve, the target will
believe that a claimed object, structure, or even specific idea belongs
to the Solar for the remainder of the scene. This belief may remain
unless directly challenged.

If they have knowledge or direct evidence to the contrary, they instead
gain a temporary Intimacy of doubt towards their own known evidence, but
remain convinced of its true ownership.

### Wise Counsel

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 2m

Advise up to (Essence) characters on a specific social action, such as
specific etiquette, methodologies to charm, or ways to speak around a
subject successfully. For the remainder of the day, the target
characters may use the Solar’s social score in place of their own
whenever performing that action.

### Woe Capturing Web

**Type:** Permanent

The Solar may monitor up to (Essence) different political circles,
organizations, or groups. They will be become immediately aware of any
large-scale actions to disrupt, curse, or otherwise hinder the group in
their main goal. They will understand the basic nature of the disruption
and epicenter, but no more than that.

The choice of selected targets may be altered between Stories.

Greater

### Heart-Eclipsing Shroud

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2m

The Solar takes on a perfected persona, with its own intimacies,
deeply-held beliefs, intentions, and past. Any methods to divine
purpose, Read Intentions, or otherwise probe the Solar will reveal the
Persona instead-making a nearly foolproof disguise.

However, the Solar must reinforce this persona through their actions
during the scene—including being influenced by their false Intimacies.
Slips in the persona, as well as contradictory facts of the past that
cannot be changed being revealed (such a records indicating there is no
person with this name), may crack the person and cause it to fall apart
on a successful roll against the Solar’s Resolve. Once done, the person
cannot be re-entered for the remainder of the day.

### Memory-Reweaving Discipline

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 2a

With absolute certainty, the Solar rejects a known reality of the target
and replaces it with their own.

Any with (Essence) less than the Solar’s will not question the new
stated reality—they will believe that there is a new guard rotation
scheduled, or that the Solar is bringing prisoners into a cell, or that
an extra invitation was indeed sent to the Solar.

Against others, the Solar may make a social roll against Resolve with an
extra (Essence) dice on their efforts to convince them.

The Storyteller may grant targets extra resistance based on the
outlandishness or improbability of the narrative spoken: +2 if the story
is certainly false, +4 if running counter to all known facts of the
world.

### Soul-Snaring Contract

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 3a

Using byzantine words, endless caveats, and simple persuasive will, the
Solar can manage to bind a target to a completely unfair contract,
ranging from selling sand to desert dwellers, to letting a man walk free
for a promise of a bond.

So long as the Solar upholds their end of the bargain, the target will
remain under the contract for at least a Month.

Any target with (Essence) less than the Solar’s does not get to resist
this effect. Against others, the Solar must successfully convince the
target to sign the contract, which is a “Perform Serious Task” action.

### 

###  Taboo-Inflicting Diatribe

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2a

The Solar may dictate a specific, simple law or ideal into an
organization that they are occupy a role of high leadership or respected
association. “Do not steal from company coffers” or “express perfect
candor with clients” are examples of such laws. (“Do not steal” would be
too generic.)

This law becomes sacrosanct to the organization, and shortly a core
ideal. While there will certainly be individuals in the organization who
break this law, they become exceedingly rare.

This charm may uphold up to (Essence) different Laws. Stopping the charm
does not necessarily remove the core tenet, if it has found root in the
organization.

### Twisted Meaning

**Type:** Simple; Scene  
**Cost:** 2a

With but a few well placed words, the Solar can turn the words of their
enemies against themselves.

On a successful Social roll against a target’s Resolve, the Solar
chooses a particular intimacy, topic of discussion, or idea the target
espouses, and then poisons it with the Solar’s own words.

For the remainder of the scene anytime the target speaks, acts, or
otherwise tries to communicate the poisoned concept, it will always be
expressed or interpreted as the Solar dictated: such as true belief
becoming mocking disdain.

### Venomous Rumors Technique

**Type:** Simple; Day  
**Cost:** 3a

With a firm, knowing word, invent a lie about a topic, person, or group,
rolling (Cunning + Subterfuge). The lie is then set free among the
populous, and any with a Resolve less than the number of Successes
automatically believes this rumor and spreads it to those they know.

This vicious rumor will quickly spread to an entire city, where it will
remain in the public’s consciousness for at least a day, often longer.

### Wise-Eyed Courtier Method

**Type:** Simple  
**Cost:** 2m

On entering the room, the Lawgiver may make a Read Intentions action
against all in the room. Roll one (Insight + Awareness) roll. Any in the
room with a Guile less than the roll is subject to their intentions
being read.

The Storyteller should surmise many of the attitudes and postures of the
characters in the room, but allow the Player to ask a question of one or
two important characters.

Capstone
