---
layout: page
base_url: System
title: Attributes
order: 4
---

Attributes
==========

Attributes are a character’s raw, innate skills. They represent the
capacity and limitations of the body, mind, and soul. Attributes may be
trained and expanded on, but often take quite a bit of time and effort
to do so.

Each Attribute is categorized as either **Force, Finesse**, or
**Resilience.** These characterizations represent how the Attribute is
typically used in the style of play.

All Attributes start at Rating One, and may reach up to Rating Five.
There is nothing, save death, that can decrease a character’s Attribute
below One.

Physical
--------

### Strength

**Force**

Strength represents both the raw muscular strength a character contains,
as well as the intuition and practice to use it effectively. It is used
to calculate **Base Damage,** the **Attack Roll** of Heavy Weapons, as
well as feats of strength such as lifting, breaking, and climbing.

### Dexterity

**Finesse**

Dexterity is the fine control, reflexes, and agility a character has
over their own body. It is used to calculate the **Attack Roll** of
Light Weapons, as well as **Evasion**, and can help with various tasks
such as balance, dancing, and lockpicking.

### Stamina

**Resilience**

Stamina is how characters sustain physical activity over a period of
time. Everything from running a marathon to holding still against
forces. It is used to calculate **Endurance** value.

Social
------

### Charisma

**Force**

Charisma is a measure of how a character can outwardly express
themselves to others through *active* communication. It is used for
actions such as **Influence Intimacy** and **Perform Task**.

### Insight

**Finesse**

Insight is a measure of how a character can understand others by
observing their actions, words, and expressions. A character with high
Insight would be able to correctly guess and understand another's
motivation to predict their next actions. It is used for actions such as
**Read Intentions** and **Discover Intimacy.**

### Composure

**Resilience**

Composure is a measure of how a character communicates through *passive*
communication. This controls how a person uses their body language, and
how they can hide their true intentions through masks of reaction or
non-reaction. It is used to calculate **Guile.**

Mental
------

### Intelligence

**Force**

Intelligence is a measure of how a character can think logically,
organize thoughts, absorb information, and connect together disparate
pieces of information.

### Cunning

**Finesse**

Cunning is a measure of intuition, common sense, and fast-thinking.

### Will

**Resilience**

Will is the mental fortitude of a character, their ability to endure
hard times, and power through and complete their own ideas and thoughts.
It is used to calculate **Resolve.**
