---
layout: page
base_url: System
title: Introduction
order: 0
group_order: 3
next_url: Character Creation
next_title: Character Creation
---

### Themes

Exalted is a game where the heroes are demigods, fonts of power. That
which mortals toil and test against fall easily against the might of the
Exalts, and the Exalts now test their mettle against the monsters and
problems of the world: from the chaotic Fae beasts which rip at the
edges of the world, to the horrid effects of greed and systemic
corruption that hides in the hearts of man.

More often than not, they will succeed in what they have set their mind
to-yet they must explore the consequences and repercussions of such
actions.

To play Exalted, there are a few core setting themes that should be
followed:

#### Actions are Momentous

The Player Character is the right person at the right time to change the
world—for better or for worse. This blessing and burden cannot be given
to another, and the Gods are restrained in their actions for reasons
ranging from arcane laws, to being involved in their own machinations,
to being too weak to do anything.

From the small, personal stories to world-shattering changes, the Exalt
stands at the center of it.

#### What is Done Cannot be Undone

Exaltations cannot be rescinded, the dead cannot return to life except
in a hollow mockery of what they once were, and the progress of time is
constantly moving forward. Exalts must face the consequences of all
their actions.

#### The Heroes are Flawed

Despite all of their powers and might, Exalts are still human and carry
with them their flaws—and this does not make them any less of a hero.

### Dice

*Exalted Reincarnated* uses multiple ten-sided dice (d10s). It is
suggested to have fifteen dice (real or virtual). The dice will
represent digits between 1 and 10. (Some dice will have a 0, treat that
as a 10).

###  Unofficial

**Exalted**, by **Onyx Path Publishing,** is a role-playing game
blending together high-action combat, social intrigue, and epic-scale
actions from demigod heroes.

The setting is full of rich lore, intricacies, and horrors that inspire
and captivate the mind, begging to be explored by a hero of grand scale.

However, the complexity and sheer size of the rules structure makes
playing the game a daunting task, even for experienced role-players.

**Exalted Reincarnated** is a fan-made work to rebuild and recreate
Exalted from the ground up to better match its rich Lore, Setting, and
Style.

This is Fan-Made material. It is unofficial, and makes no claims of
ownership over Onyx Path Publishing materials.

You will need the official *Exalted* books for lore, setting and
reference material. *Exalted Reincarnated* makes assumptions based off
of Third Edition, but can be played with any of the editions.

### Feedback

This project is constantly evolving and changing. If you find problems
or want to simply share suggestions, please do so!

*Have fun!*

Setting
-------

Creation trembles, poised at the turn of a new age. She strains as the
systems and rules which long held her together collapse around her. Her
population have become thrown into chaos, a time uncertain.

The mighty Realm, whose reach expanded even out of the Blessed Isle, has
lost her Empress with no heir declared. Now, each Dragonblooded Clan
vies to claim the throne for their own, whether it be by politics or by
force—ignoring all else that goes on around them.

The Silver Pact, that loose association only tied together by their
hatred and resistance to the Realm, find their alliances crumbling.
Their stances mutate and shift just as their Lunar leaders do. Deep
rivalries and opposing systems clash as they turn their attention from
the faltering and collapsing Realm onto each other.

The Great City of Thorns has fallen, another wellspring of Death and her
servants bubbling up from the ever-present threat of the Underworld.

The silent and secretive Sidereals, those Seers from their hidden
places, watch, attempting to hold together what strands of Fate and
Reality they might, bickering on what Is and what Shall Be.

All the while, the minor powers seek to claim their own lands and hold
in this uncertain time.

*In this time, the Sun has brought his Chosen back, those great heroes,
those terrible Mad Emperors.*

###  History 

#### The Time of Glory

In the First Age of Mankind, the Exalted—those mortals gifted with a
portion of the god’s powers—reigned from above. And at their forefront
were the brightest among them, the Chosen of the Sun—the Solars.

The First Age was a marvel. Few, if none, had want for bread, nor
suffered from diseases, nor lacked purpose. The lands of Creation
advanced in grand workings—vast interconnected empires spread across the
land, with networks of great trade. Rivalries of course existed, and the
occasional skirmish was fought, but mostly it was a time of peace, where
the greatest thread to Creation came from the vast chaos of the
Wyld—disturbed by the constant expansion of Creation.

#### The Time of Madness

But in the heart of this First Age lived something dark, something that
festered and grew just as the borders of Creation grew. Inside of
mankind’s lies a corruptive force, a so-called Great Curse that is a
part of us all, but shows itself most to those who have great power. And
the Exalted had so much power.

Alongside great civic works grew monuments of great ego, held together
soley by force of will. Hard, necessary labor soon became the sentence
of criminals and undesirables—a definition that grew to encompass more
and more peoples over time. What were once rivalries between empires
soon descended into endless, bloody wars that threatened the very fabric
of Creation itself.

And, at the forefront of this madness were the Solars—just as they were
during peace. In a shining moment of ultimate pride, one of them
attempted to Usurp their Patron: the Unconquered Sun. The heavens quaked
and nearly shattered at the battle, but eventually the Sun kept true to
his name and defeated his Chosen, but not without great, debilitating
wounds that led to his collapse. Nights—once a conscious gift—became a
necessity for so that he might recover: and nights have gotten steadily
longer as the years have passed on.

The Heavens raged at this affront and sealed themselves off from
Creation. This was enough to shock the Exalted, and though it was
bloody, they managed to survive though the lands of Creation were
permanently scarred and changed.

#### The Time of Sorrow

The Dragonblooded, the most numerous and most mortal of the Exalted,
were those that were left to pick up the pieces in the rubble of the
First Age. Slowly, over millenia, they rebuilt. While it was a shadow of
what it once was, it became a peace of sorts. They managed to stabilize
the world, beat back a thousand dooms and angry Gods that threatened the
mortals of the broken, shurnken lands of Creation.

But over time, the natural distrust of the other Exalts and their
actions turned to fear, eventually turning their gaze inward into a sort
of pride. Left to pick up the pieces, to salvage the mess of others,
they soon started to feel it was their divine duty, and in a way a
judgement that their worth was better than all others.

This Pride soon became doctrine, and one mandated by their new Scarlet
Empress. All other Exalts, should they not swear fealty to the
Dragonblooded, would be seen as dangers to be removed.

This pride only paradoxically only grew when the Outer Provinces
rebelled and seperated at this mandate. It only grew as their Empress
was slain—now a matyr to the cause. A Holy Symbol of their greatness
shattered and broken by the morally corrupt others.

#### The Time of Tumult

Today, the lands of the central Realm is in a constant state of a civil
war—though none dare to call it a war. Each Dragonblooded house vies for
the throne, each declaring an (often dubious) tie to the great Scarlet
Empress as proof. Among them is Mnemon, a proven descendent of the
Empress, but she has Exalted as a Solar and all have banded against her
to stop her.

A great Lunar General rebelled against the House Tepet, splitting their
Northern lands in twain. He has renamed himself the Bull of the North,
and has become a constant threat from the outside.

Among all this chaos, in the central realm and the scattered city-states
of the rebellious Outer Provinces, wander the Wyld Hunt. What was once a
unified, independant gathering of Exalts tasked with dealing with
demons, fae, angry Gods, and other threats to Creation, has become
fractured. Some chapters of the Wyld hunt stick true to their
goals—recruiting new Exalts to serve Creation itself. Others have become
little more than political extensions, threatening any who do not agree
with their ideology.

