---
layout: page
base_url: System
title: Powers
group_order: 1
order: 10
prev_url: Projects
prev_title: Projects
next_url: Charms
next_title: Charms
---

Powers
======

The word “Powers” refers to the various sources of supernatural effects
the Exalt can have upon the world, including (but not limited to):
Charms, Evocations, Spells, and Martial Arts Techniques.

System Presentation
-------------------

Powers are presented in a manner similar to the following:

> **Cost:** 2m  
> **Type:** Primary  
> **Mins:** Awareness 3

### Cost

Designates what character resources it takes to use the Power. A Power
of no cost (such as Permanent effects) will be designated with “--”.

-   **m—**Motes of Essence, which can be a chosen combination of
    Personal or Peripheral

    -   Some Powers will specifically designate (personal) or
        (peripheral) in their cost.

-   **i—**If used in a Combat Scene, requires **Impulse**. If used in an
    Encounter Scene, requires **Influence.**

-   **sm—**Sorcerous Motes, which are described in more detail in the
    [<u>Sorcery</u>](/System/Sorcery_and_Necromancy/#sorcery-and-necromancy).

### Type

The Power’s Type designates how the power may be activated, and then how
long it is active for in the format:

**Type:** (Activation Type); (Duration)

So, a Power that activates *Reflexively* and is then *active* for the
remainder of the scene would be written as:

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene

If there is no duration written, the power is considered *Instant*, and
immediately dissipates after activation.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Terminating Active Powers</strong></p>
<p>An Exalt may willfully terminate a Power earlier than its stated duration (unless specifically stated otherwise.) However, they must then pay the activation cost again if they want to reuse the power.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### 

#### **Activation Type**

-   **Simple.** Consumes an Action Slot. Only one Action may be taken
    per turn.

-   **Free**. Does not consume an Action Slot, but must still be
    activated on the character’s Turn. (i.e. not Reflexively.)

-   **Supplemental.** Enhances a Primary or Secondary Action. There is
    no limit to the number of supplemental Powers that may be combined
    together.

-   **Reflexive**. Conditional powers that may be used outside of normal
    turn order. So long as the condition is met, the Reflexive Power may
    always be used.

-   **Permanent**. Once purchased, this power is always active.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Timing Conflicts</strong></p>
<p>If there is ever a timing conflict, such as with two Reflexive Charms going off at once, the resolution goes according to the <em>defender’s choice</em>.</p>
<p>If that is still unclear, there should be a contested roll using the relevant <em>Finesse</em> Attribute.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Minimum Requirements

When buying a Power, there are certain Minimums that must first be
met--such as the dot Rating in a specific Ability.

Glossary of Terms
-----------------

There are specific words and phrases that charms commonly use as a
shorthand for mechanical actions—so that the power description isnt
constantly cluttered with the same mechanical saying.

-   **On Hit** Any Action, including Maneuvers and the Accuracy Roll,
    which exceeds a target’s DV. Unless otherwise stated, this hit must
    be on an action from the character, using the Ability that the Power
    is under.

    -   Sometimes the Power will explicitly target Evasion or Soak.

-   **Feats of Strength** Rolls, typicall using Strength and Physique,
    with the intent of expressing physical prowess—hefting boulders,
    breaking walls, carrying tons, etc

Charms
------

Charms are the natural expression of a character’s essence, a specific
and trained way for their internal power to be expressed upon the world.

These powers are inherently personal, and each expression will vary from
individual to individual: those that are listed are simply
generalizations and categorization for easy shorthand.

Typically, a character does not know they are using a specific charm
with a specific name--they simply know that their instinctual channeling
of their essence will produce the desired effect.

### Greater Charms

Greater Charms are powers more powerful, and far more complicated to
learn and perfect than a normal Charm.

A character must first be at **Essence 3** to learn a Greater Charm, and
it will cost **double** the amount of XP to learn.

Making New Powers
-----------------

\[\[NOTE: This section is old and slated for rewrite.\]\]

Players and Storytellers are encouraged to work together to craft and
use Custom Charms that fit individual characters and their needs--the
provided charms are intended to cover most common uses of charms, but
could never encompass all that an Exalt *could* do.

Charms and Custom Charms do not have any sort of “niche protection” from
each other. Do not be afraid to create Custom Charms that have similar
effects.

Making custom charms can be a bit difficult, so let’s run through an
example.

##### Example: Searing Sunfire Interdiction

**Identify what the need is**

> *I want a high-powered charm damage that also does Area of Effect
> (flurry) attacks, and alsos fits within the Solar Theme.*

### Imagine the visuals/effects

Exalted is a game centered around role-playing, scene interactions, and
heroes being grander than life. The impact a charm has upon a *scene* is
often of primary importance to the game. The mechanics are simply there
to make sure that is represented accurately.

Try to envision what your character is actually *doing*. Seek
inspiration from literature, games, and other charms. Not everything
needs to be super-cool and flashy, but spending a moment to think
through the actions and steps a character might do for the desired
effect.

In this example charm's case, the inspiration comes from a natural
source: a cascading sunbeam. As well, it’s well represented in popular
video games: a beam of light cascades from the heavens and damages those
in its way.

### Brainstorm Secondary effects And Limitations

Now that we have a visual effect--a beam of light appearing over the
target area--it's time to think of the consequences of that charm.

-   Sunlight is a heavy theme here, so it may do extra damage against
    Creatures of Darkness.

-   It's a bright beam of light. It's going to be pretty obvious.

-   It's an archery charm, so an arrow needs to be used. Maybe you fire
    an arrow into the sky, pierce a cloud and the sun peers through?

    -   Access to the sky then?

    -   Does it need access to the Sun itself, since it's a sunbeam? Can
        you not use this in the Underworld?

-   Does sunlight hurt other Solars? Or themselves? Are they immune to
    their own powers?

-   Is the attack indiscriminate in its area? Can the Solar exclude
    allies?

With that list of thoughts gathered, we can sort through what additional
limitations and benefits the charm will have, using motes and Impulse
cost to assist in that manner.

### Double check the theme

Solars have a theme of *excellency*, so we should try to avoid too many
limitations. As well, their powers should come from *within*, rather
than externally. Let's discard the *access to the Sun* right away.

*Damaging Creatures of Darkness* seems appropriate, let us keep it in.
We'll have to make sure the extra damage isn't too little or too much by
gauging it against other charms with that effect.

*Access to the sky* is limiting--you wouldn't be able to use this
underground or in tight enclosed spaces. That's a reasonable limitation,
and easily worked around in most cases.

Excluding allies from the attack could be useful, but that may make the
charm too powerful. Best just to leave it as a full, indiscriminate AoE
attack--much akin to a bomb. The player will have to work around that.

*"Solars being immune"* is an interesting one, because it's both a
benefit and a limitation. It means the solar could center the beam of
light around themselves--and their party members, if they are
Solars--and not be hurt. A sort of an addendum to the above limitation.

However, there are a couple of items to consider: the Solar thematic
rely more on "human paragon" rather than "sun-powered." This effect
would not be as appropriate as a Dragon-Blooded being able to stand in a
plume of fire. As well, with all of the other rules written and in
place, the Charm description has already become medium length. There is
no inherent rule about a charm's description length, but it is a quick
and easy metric to see if the charm has too much (or little) stuffed
into it.

For these reasons we will leave off that particular benefit/limitation.

### Add/Adjust numbers

This charm has ended up being pretty powerful, but that was its
intention. However, this does mean that I should put its Mote and
Impulse cost up at a higher level than normal.

### Iterate/Edit

I have lied a bit to you with this Example: I have given the impression
that the process was an ordered, straightforward process, where one task
was completed before the other. This is completely false.

In reality, the actual process is to go through again and again, often
skipping steps and going back to them. You typically don't get the final
version of a Charm or ability on the first pass, and a lot of the unique
nature and interesting abilities come out through multiple edits.

### Avoiding Pitfalls

Making Charms and Powers is more of an art than a precise science.

#### Filling in Thematic Holes

The first question you should ask yourself when creating a Charm is “Am
I *just* trying to fill in an intentional weakness of an Ability?” If
so, you should take a double look at what your intent is, analyze if
there is an alternate way, or proceed very carefully.

It’s often the first instinct to try to fill such a hole in--after all,
we often want our characters to be the best at what they do, and seeing
such a glaring hole can be frustrating.

However, doing so is often detrimental to the longevity of the game--a
fully fleshed out character is often one that is flawed--and so is the
same with Abilities and Powers.

The easiest example to show is the difference between Melee and Archery
combat. Melee deals damage at targets that are nearby, while Archery
deals damage from afar. If you use charms to “fill in the gaps” of range
between the two, they suddenly lose most, if not all, of their distinct
natures from each other and simply become “Combat.”

This isn’t to say you *can’t* make a Melee charm that deals damage at a
range--there are those that already exist--but you should go into charm
creation realizing that *some* (but not all) holes are *intentional.* If
you are to make charms in those spaces, they should respect why the hole
is there in the first place.

#### Use Sparingly: Dice Tricks (TN Shifting, Double X’s)

“Dice Tricks” are effects that rely on the face values of dice, and
often contain wording such as “Whenever a 1 is rolled…” These types of
mechanics should be considered **very carefully**, and used **extremely
sparingly**.

When using a Dice Pool system, such as Exalted does with its (Att+Abi)x
d10’s, all players around the table will start to rely on *memorization*
of dice faces as symbols, rather than individually interpreting the
numbers.

In essence, people will start to quickly stop seeing the numbers:

**{ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 }**

Instead,minds will short circuit this, seeing this as the much more
manageable:

**{ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 2 }**

If you create a power that has “Dice tricks” built into it, such as
doubling any number with an 8 or higher, *you mess with this
short-circuit memorization*. This will slow down play considerably as
players will suddenly have to focus on the dice, reinterpret the dice as
actual numbers again, and then potentially undo their memorization.

**Only use a Dice Trick if it is necessary**. A sparing number of these
effects here and there--perhaps restricted by a conditional--is fine.
But if too many of them appear, it will slow down play considerably!

Judging Costs
-------------

-   Lesser Charms should have mins from 1-3 (maybe 4)

-   Greater Charms should have Mins from 3-4 (maybe 5)

-   Effects in the Maneuver Stunts table should be 2m at base. If you
    improve them, no more than 5m.

-   Targeting Evasion/Soak is 3m, 1i. Targeting a non-standard defense
    is 4m, 2i.
