---
layout: page
base_url: System
title: Projects
order: 4
group_order: 4
prev_url: Combat
prev_title: Combat
---

From waging a campaign to spreading a mercantile Guild to infiltrating
and converting a spy network, to building a grand Manse, sometimes the
Exalted want to do long-reaching, large-scale endeavors that are best
handled through a broad-stroking brush.

Projects represent what happens during **downtime** to explain what
characters are doing when the heat of action is not fully upon them. As
such, performing Projects best happens during *time skips* or *between
stories—*a perfect point to pause the action and reflect on what
characters are not doing on-screen.

However, *this is not required—*any point of downtime or rest is a valid
time to perform a Project. In this case, the time required is assumed to
have been done over the course of many sleepless nights—or just
hand-waved away.

A scene of Projects will often follow a montage structure—Choose a
Player, let them describe what they are spending their points on, then
ask for a couple of small images of what happens during the project,
leading up to the inevitable Obstruction that will need to be dealt
with.

**Example Projects:**

-   Arming Militia

-   Repairing a burned down village

-   Establishing a spy network

-   Repairing a manse

-   Establishing trade

-   Creating a manse

Resources
---------

Projects require a certain number of **Resources (RES)** to complete.
This resource is a generalized representation of everything from labor,
physical materials, knowledge, and the like that can be applied to the
Project. Once applied to the project, RES is permanently consumed—while
the labor force may still be there, perhaps payment toward them ran dry,
or they can no longer delay tending to their crops.

Much like XP, The Storyteller should periodically award RES to the
players. However, unlike XP, RES should be more based on events within
the campaign, such as recovering materials from a lost manse, gaining
the workforce of a thankful village, etc.

**1 Resource** is roughly equivalent to:

-   A highly-successful Merchant route.

-   An entire village’s worth of manpower for a month.

-   A favor from a very powerful person.

Due to the generalized nature of Projects, the source of Resource does
not always match the application of them. It is simply assumed that
conversion of Resources to their applicable form is handled
“off-screen”: recovered gems could grease the pockets of a noble,
allowing for backroom deals that allow military training of civilians,
for example. In general, this is all *assumed* to have happened, and
does not need attention drawn to it.

### Pooling Resources

Players may freely transfer and give RES to other characters, should
they so choose, but only one character will gain the benefits of the
Project.

### Keystone Resource

Larger and more ambitious projects (Projects of Scale 4 **and 5**) will
require a Keystone to complete—some piece of the Story that is needed to
complete the project. This can range from needing a General to command
an army to requiring a significant amount of *magical materials,* such
as Orichalcum or Moonsilver.

Keystone Resources are things that Players must *seek out.* Typically,
this is done by dropping out of the “montage” section of Projects, and
embracing a full scene involving the Exalt seeking out, resolving, and
interacting with their desired Keystone. This need *not* be longer than
a small Scene, but it *can* be used as a major driving force for the
Story.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Using Keystones as Story Generation</p>
<p>Keystones are an excellent way to gauge what Players care about, and what they feel is central to care about—you never need a Keystone for a minor change to the world or minor merit for the character.</p>
<p>Therefore, it’s not unreasonable to ask players early what sort of Keystone they are seeking, and then make it a plot of a <strong>Story,</strong> giving them the requested Keystone when certain criteria have been met—when they have recruited their General, changed the geomancy of an area, or introduced their assassin network into a new location.</p>
<p><strong>However</strong>, Keystones aren’t <em>required</em> to be important parts of the Story. Just simply detailing out a small Scene to its acquisition is perfectly acceptable.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The Right Tool for the Job
--------------------------

When you start a project, you will need to detail which **Primary
Ability** will be used in the Project. Any Project using the Natural
Abilities should follow rules of common sense: If you are training
troops to be archers, you should be using Archery or Command. If you are
creating a Spy network, use Subterfuge.

### Gaining/Improving Merits

**Projects** can be a way for characters to gain or improve Merits. For
example, the character might decide to recruit *Followers*, establish a
network of *Contacts*, or make an *Artifact*.

The level of the Merit Improved is equal to the **Scale** of the
Project.

If a character is *improving* a Merit to a higher rating, they pay the
*difference* in RES, Keystones, and time between the ratings. For
example, improving *Contacts* from Rating 1 to Rating 2 would be one
Resource.

### Making Changes to the World

From raising walls to creating vast trade networks, Projects can be used
to alter the world around the Exalt to their will (and benefit.)

The Magnitude of the change determines the base Resource and Keystone
cost: as determined by the population and/or terrain size affected.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Projects</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td><strong>Project Affects Population/Terrain</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Village</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Town</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>City</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Prefecture</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Province</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Project Resistance

When making a change on the world, sometimes the world and its
inhabitants pushes back. If you are attempting to muster a great army
while in the middle of hostile territory, it certainly will take much
greater care and effort to do so!

If the change is **Unnatural**, or **Significantly opposed**, increase
the Scale by **+1**. This would encompass such oddities such as advanced
technology that is self-maintained or changing a ragtag set of farmers
with no military knowledge into an organized army within a month. Or
trying to establish a Spy network in a network loyal to an Exalt without
them knowing, or attempting to reclaim land from hostile places such as
the Wyld.

If the change is clearly **Supernatural** in nature or **Overwhelmingly
opposed**, such as making a well that perpetually draws fresh water from
the middle of the desert, increase the Scale of the project by **(+2)**.
Resistance of this magnitude would be opposed by extreme forces, such as
Gods, or networks of Exalts, such as the Bronze Faction of Sidereals.

### 

###  Repairing, Altering, or Destroying Projects

Some Projects focus on altering an existing aspect of the world—such as
repairing a great Manse or taking an existing network of people and
converting them to work for you, or completely eradicating it
altogether.

Since much of the work has been done already, these types of Projects
will be *reduced in scale*, depending on the severity of the repairs or
changes needed to be made.

Destruction of a Projects focuses more on doing so *safely*, and in a
controlled manner.

-   **Minor** (-2 to Scale). The repairs and/or changes needed to be
    made are significant enough to warrant attention, but will not
    consume the Character endlessly.

-   **Major** (-1 to Scale). There is significant damage or resistance
    to your changes.

-   **Monumental** (-0 to Scale). It would be the same amount of effort
    to repair and or alter the Project as it would be to create a new
    one from the ground up.

This cannot decrease the Scale below 1.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Altering Owned Projects</strong></p>
<p>You can’t alter a Project if someone else <em>currently</em> owns it. You would first have to depose the current leader of a Spy Network and <em>then</em> take over the leaderless network as your own.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

There’s a Size 3 Assassin network the Eclipse Caste has recently become
the leader of. Being a pacifist, he wants them to stop killing and
convert into simply a network of Spys. There is enough internal
resistance to this command that he must make a Minor Alteration Project
(*Base 3, -2) and so it becomes a Scale 1 Project.*

### 

 Obstruction Rolls
-----------------

All projects greater than **Scale 1** will have an Obstruction Roll, to
represent any sort of random events and/or problems that will inevitably
show up during the course of your Project.

> Once the Player knows the scale of their Obstruction, they should
> describe what the result is, and how their character deals with the
> results.
>
> If desired, the Player may request ideas from the Storyteller or other
> players.

An Obstruction Roll uses an (Attribute + Ability) roll. However, **this
is not a normal Ability Roll**, and cannot be modified by normal Powers,
as this roll represents a considered effort over a great amount of time,
not burst effort. Only Powers which **explicitly** mention the Project
system affect this roll.

The **Excellency** may be used on an Obstruction Roll, but the **cost**
is doubled—2 Limit. (Abyssals gain a Limit, and must start with their
decreased Health Pool at the next non-Project Scene.)

The results of the Obstruction Roll operates on a **Degree of Success**,
which subtracts the project’s scale from the number:

**Degree of Success:** (Att + Ability) - Scale

The Degree of Success determines how well the character did on their
project. Do note that the Project has already been bought and paid for
with their Resources, so even a negative roll will allow the project to
come to fruition—at a cost. The exception being 0 Successes rolled—a
critical failure.

### Obstruction Results:

#### Critical Failure: 0 Successes Rolled

The Character has so incredibly botched their attempt that it is has
become actively dangerous to them and all involved.

The character may either to *immediately* Cheat Death—sacrificing an
existing Merit or something close to them—or else allow the disaster to
spiral out of control, allowing the Storyteller to create an incredible
consequence for their actions.

Should they choose to push forward despite the incredible disaster they
have caused, they must Cheat Death again.

Regardless if they push forward or not, all Resources are lost.

**Examples:**

-   Your workers have split into two different groups, on the brink of a
    civil war.

-   An uncaught spy sabotaged your works, and has successfully usurped
    your hard work for their own gain.

-   One of the magical materials was corrupted with Vitriol, becoming a
    touchstone gateway for unbound Demons.

#### 

####  Problem: Result is negative

The Project turned out to be incredibly more challenging than expected,
and you are only able to pull it off by the skin of your teeth, putting
great strain on your well-being.

You have quelled the issue—for now. It is almost certain to show back up
later.

**Examples:**

-   A spy has not returned on time. You know they are not simply late.

-   Loss of a minor cache of resources. A spirit has started to disrupt
    the village.

-   An explosion rocked your campsite.

-   Supply lines are being disrupted.

-   Rumors of the Wyld hunt are near your border.

#### Alteration: (0-3)

Something unexpected happened—nothing that you can’t handle, but it did
require you to change something significant about the project.

**Examples:**

-   Beastmen have heard of your militia, and wish to join. Current
    members are uneasy and do not wish them to without your input.

-   Your cult desires a clarification on one of your rules: currently
    one of the members is in violation of the technical aspects of the
    law, but not the spirit. What is the precedent that you wish to set?

-   The magical materials to create your artifact were slightly flawed,
    leading to a variance in essence flow. It might lead to a new and
    unintended strange power.

#### Success: (4-5)

Everything went according to plan. Describe your character excelling at
what they are good at, anticipating any and all issues that might have
happened with their greatest grace.

#### Critical Success: (6+)

The Maidens of Fate smiled upon you, and decided to grace your efforts
beyond your wildest ability.

Not only do you succeed, but you *exceed* at your expectation. You may
either describe how your efforts go above and beyond what you wanted,
gaining one extra Scale to your Project, reclaim 1 Resource from the
Project, or allow the Storyteller to grant you a boon from this effort
to be reflected in the story.
