---
layout: page
base_url: System
title: The Exalted
order: 2
group_order: 3
prev_url: Character Creation
prev_title: Character Creation
next_url: The System
next_title: The System
---

### Solars

The Unconquered Sun chooses his champions from the greatest of humanity
to be its champions. They are the wisest scholars, the greatest
generals, and the most esteemed of diplomats. To be a Solar is to be
creature of extremes—they are the mightiest of heroes, and often the
most cunning of villains.

Solars turn their powers inwards, enhancing what Abilities they pursue.
As well, they alone can reach past their natural limitations, using
high-level Powers sooner than any other Exalt.

### Dragonblooded

Lineage is the single most important thing to a Dragonblooded, as the
blood of the Dragons may flare up and grant Exaltation. Every single
Dragonblood can trace their heritage back in an unbroken chain towards
the Elemental Dragons themselves.

As such Dragonblooded form complex societal webs, rife with intrigue,
politics, and backstabbing—particularly in the world-spanning empire
that is the Realm. Even the far flung, forgotten branches of their
family trees will not be safe from such social pressures.

Every Dragonblood gains access to the five elements: Fire, Water, Air,
Earth, and Wood. As well, as the current masters of the world, they gain
the ability to naturally lord and command over peoples without
restraint.

### Lunars

Luna, the Many-Faced Moon chooses their champions from those that cannot
be bound—not by definitions, not by laws, and *certainly* not by any
forms of slavery. The Chosen are raw, primal heroes, channeling the raw
might of nature, the soul, and the chaotic might of the Wyld.

Lunars gain access to Shapeshifting, Beasts, Spirit, and the Wyld. As
well, their gain access to a Half Form, which allows them to enhance and
change their natural attributes as needed.

### Sidereals

The Chosen of Fate, overseen by the Maidens of Destiny, come into power
because they will have always been given that power. To be a Sidereal is
to accept and understand this circular nature of reality. The Chosen of
the Stars fight and guide the flow of Fate, Destiny, and the nature of
reality itself.

Sidereals are gifted powers over the aspects of Fate. They may also
weave in their own goals and visions into the tapestry of reality. In
addition, they gain access to powerful and strange Martial Arts that
stretch and bend the nature of reality.

### 

###  Abyssals

The force of Oblivion seeps at the hidden edges of Creation, consuming
and destroying what *is* so that *nothing* may replace it. Those mortal
unlucky enough to be caught in these forces will find themselves split,
empty, partially consumed. Within that shell of a broken soul, the power
of the void can take root and form an Abyssal.

Abyssals are creatures that are neither alive nor dead, trapped in
between realms. Much like the shadows, they take the form of the
strongest light source—in this case the Solars—but their substance is
nothing of them. What an Abyssals chooses to do with their profane and
destructive power is their choice, be it to become a speaker for the
dead, spirits of vengeance, or even those that wish to hearken the end.

The powers of the Abyssal revolve around Blood, Flesh, Shadows, and
Memory.

### Infernals

Before even the Age of Glory, there was a war among the Gods, who
overthrew their cruel masters. These creatures chafe at their
imprisonment and seek to wreak their unfocused and impotent rage upon
the creations of the Gods.

Infernals are their solution, a force of power given to those that are
*not worthy* to hold such destructive force—and so will use it casually
and callously in whatever force this unworthy mortal deems as “right and
good.”

Their power is an abomination—a thousand pieces of stolen power from the
other Exalts, taken from the foolish over millennia in exchange for
pieces of the Yozi’s great, destructive power, and then stitched
together into a demon that merges with the mortal.

Infernals draw their powers from the nature of their masters themselves,
devoting to one path or another. As well, their form can be overwhelmed
with their power, showing the power of their demon in a brief moment of
unholy power.

### Alchemicals

The Machine God left careful arcane instructions to his followers, to
build and create protectors while he slept and healed from his grievous
wounds. From these byzantine and incomprehensible instructions are born
the champions of his followers, and protector of his sleeping form.

Alchemicals are mortal souls born into an artificial body—built by
mortal hands, but gifted the spark of exaltation by the sleeping god.
They will always have a small community to protect and lead.

The power of the Alchemical is focused on the magical materials:
Orichalcum, Jade, Moonsilver, Starmetal, and Soulsteel. Their powers are
modular, allowing swapping of charms and powers as they see fit.

### 

Other Creatures

### Fae

### Dragon Kings

Essence
-------

Essence is the fundamental energy that flows through the world, all
creatures, and mortals—an energy that Exalts are naturally able to wield
to their advantage.

A character’s ability to manipulate and channel the energies of the
world are measured in **Motes** of **Essence**, a pool of points that is
immediately spent for supernatural effects, and slowly regains over
time.

Motes of Essence regain 1 per Hour when the character is taking explicit
action to rest, such as sleeping, playing games, or participating in
(relatively) stress-free activities that they enjoy.

The entire Mote Pool regains after a full night’s of rest, regardless of
how large the pool is.

The mote pool will increase with the character’s **Essence**, which is a
measure of how in tune the character is with the flows of energy through
and surrounding them. This Rating will increase automatically as the
character accrues xp.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Is it rest if I…</strong></p>
<p>If an activity has any dual purpose or gains advantage (aside from the passage of time), it is not considered rest.</p>
<p>A character may play a game to relax, but using a game to strategize a battle plan is not. Talking jovially (or in commiseration) with fellows is relaxing, while trying to convince friends to join in a plan is not.</p>
<p>This regeneration rule is intended to encourage roleplaying moments of respite, not to force constant calculations and bookkeeping for the Storyteller.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Anima

Exalts are not limited to just their own personal Mote Pool as a source
of their powers. The drive of action and movement will spur them to
greater and greater heights. This movement of power is represented as
*Anima*, a type of Essence Flow that is ultimately more fleeting, but
brimming with possibilities.

Anima fades away if it is not used—If the Exalt engages in rest,
regaining motes, their accumulated Anima dissipates—you can only be
“brimming with energy” for so long.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Gain Anima</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Critical Roll</strong></td>
<td>2 Anima for a roll of 8 Successes or more.<br />
If the roll is 12+, gain 4 Anima.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Stunt/Roleplay</strong></td>
<td>2 Anima for great stunts and/or roleplay.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Build Power</strong></td>
<td>1 Anima per 2 Successes</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### 

####  Using Anima

Anima may be used for:

-   Exalt/Caste Anima Abilities

-   Empowering more powerful Charms and Powers

-   Fueling a character’s **Strife**—their narrative power that expands
    past the rules.

As well, Anima may always be used in place of motes, making sure that an
Exalt is never without power. (1 Anima per 1 Mote),

#### Build Power

During heated moments, such as in Combat or Encounters, the Exalt takes
a moment to stoke their internal flames, drawing essence from the world
around them.

The Player describes how the Character focuses themselves, and rolls the
appropriate (Attribute + Ability), gaining a point of Anima for ever 2
successes rolled. (The Critical Roll Anima bonus does *not* apply on
this roll.)

Descriptions of Build Power can truly be anything. A Dawn Solar may find
solace in flourishing their weapon in a display of (Dexterity + Melee).
Another may find refuge in their thoughts, looking across others in
recollection with a (Int + Lore) roll.

Building Power encompass a number of thematic actions-- “Preparing for a
devastating blow” or “catching a breather” or “bringing all the clues
together in the mind.” It is intended to narratively reflect be the calm
before a very, very explosive storm of power and action.

For this reason, Build Power *cannot* have another mechanical
purpose—you cannot intimidate combatants with a Build Power action;
though having the scene or even unimportant characters *reacting* to the
event is always encouraged.

#### Narrative scope

Since Anima fades away so quickly, Anima need not be tracked during
slower, more narrative portions of the game. Instead, use of Anima can
be allowed through taking extra time on their actions: roughly **5
minutes per Anima** expended.

### Anima Banner

As an Exalt gathers energy, their souls become suffused with crackling
energy, inflaming it into the seen world in a glorious expression.

Ultimately the Anima Banner is an *Aesthetic* matter—one used for Stunts
and descriptions.

When using their powers, the Exalted is bathed in their power, the
crackling energies surrounding them and forming into a unique expression
of their soul—the more power used. First, they crackle with subtle
energies across their skin. Then, their Exaltation iconography
shows—often a Caste Mark on their forehead. Finally, they erupt in their
glorious fire, their body suffused in energy and their personal symbols
visible to all around them.

The Exalt may choose to consciously hide it, if in situations where
flaring their banner would be untoward. Hiding the anima banner requires
*dedicated* concentration.

Excellencies
------------

Exalts aren’t restricted to simply accepting the roll that is given to
them. When they need to, they may activate their Exalt-specific
Excellency to push their roll further than they thought they could, both
before they perform the roll, or after the roll (and all power effects)
have been finalized.

For example, a Solar will be able to add their Ability Ranks as a number
of Successes to their roll, turning what is a certain failure into a
success.

However, this does not come without a cost. The character is straining
themselves beyond their mortal bonds, and so will gain a point of
[Limit](/System/The Exalted/#limit).

The Great Curse
---------------

Exaltation is a great and wondrous blessing from the Gods, but with it
comes a great and terrible Curse. Perhaps, as the ancient and lost
stories speak, the slain Enemies of the Gods lay this Curse upon their
servants as a last, spiteful word in their dying breath. Or perhaps it
is simply inalienable nature of man, exemplified and given root in
power.

Regardless of its source, every Exalt carries with them the Great Curse,
an aggrandized character flaw that can interrupt and sabotage a
character’s well meaning in spite of their better nature.

Each individual Exaltation book details their Great Curse, but it is
important to know that these are all *suggestions*. So long as a
character has a flaw that affects their decision, it is an acceptable
Great Curse. Custom descriptions should always include three aspects:
what the flaw exposes in the character, what triggers the flaw, and what
the character will (most likely) do when they enter a Limit Break.

-   **Solars** suffer from their own Ego. They are those that tirelessly
    seek greatness and perfection, and may find others or even
    themselves not up to the standards they desire.

-   **Lunars** suffer from being trapped between worlds and are
    conflicted by the unknown. Are they man or beast? A part of society
    or apart from it? Their form is constantly shifting, so who are they
    really?

-   **Abyssals** have a portion of their self consumed by the void:
    something that is lost and that can never be reclaimed. It may be
    their name and relations; their lost vitality; a loss of emotion and
    feeling.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fine Tuning Limit Gain</strong></p>
<p>Limit Gain should always be controlled by the <em>Player</em>, not the Storyteller. While you may setup the situations, it is ultimately up to the Player to decide how their character reacts—including if and when they gain Limit.</p>
<p>Some Players will not want to gain Limit at all, others will enjoy pushing their characters back and forth constantly. Both are valid so long as they are having fun.</p>
<p>That said, the rule of thumb should be to average about 2 limit per session. If more or less, talk with your Player to see if gaining limit is happening too much or little for their preference.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Limit

The stress and wear of an Exalt’s life will build and press upon them,
eventually driving them to a breaking point. This is represented by
Limit Points.

A Character gains 1 limit point by:

-   Activating their Excellency

-   Encountering the limit trigger they have detailed as part of the
    Great Curse.

-   Working against one of their Intimacies.

Limit Points represent how strained the Exalt is—how much wear and tear
their psyche and soul is under. The character starts at 0, not being
stressed, and can raise up to 10, a level of duress which they cannot
stand anymore, at which point they will be forced Limit Break.

#### Breaking Early

When a character is particularly stressed, such as by being defeated,
having their goals turned against them, their Intimacies being credibly
threatened, or any other event the Player deems “anguishing,” they may
see if the character Limit Breaks early.

**Roll a 1d10.** If the result is equal to or higher than their current
Limit, the character keeps it together. While they might be perturbed,
hurt, otherwise emotionally compromised, they retain full faculty of
their mind and actions. However, if they roll under their limit, they
prematurely snap.

The Player, knowing their character better than any at the table, may
forgo the roll altogether and simply decide their character snaps.
Remember, this should highlight the character’s flaws, and how it can
impact and impede the character’s own goals!

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Calming Effect of Time</strong></p>
<p>Limit resets after a Limit Break, which is the main. However, long spans of rest, meditation, and peace may ease the Exalt down from their stressed life.</p>
<p>So long as the time breaks are particularly restful, the Exalt may lose 1 Limit per week.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Limit Break

When a character **Limit Breaks,** they lose all perspective on anything
that does not align with their **Great Curse** and will make active and
considered effort to fulfill it, regardless of the consequences.

A character Limit Breaking does not lose their faculties, nor do they
forget their Intimacies—but those are simply *secondary* to their Great
Curse. Often they will use convoluted and strange reasoning to justify
their actions.

A Limit Break lasts for an entire scene. Only performing a grave offense
against their own deeply-held Intimacies would be enough to snap the
character out of their actions prematurely.

At the end of a Limit Break, reset Limit to 0.

During a Limit Break, the character does not gain any limit—even from
activating their Excellencies. This effectively grants them **free use
of the Excellency for the entire scene**, though it will still raise
their anima level.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Ticking Time Bomb</strong></p>
<p>There will be occasions when a character enters Limit Break, but turning it into a Limit Break Scene just doesn’t fit—it occurred during an otherwise lighthearted scene, or when the Exalt is in the middle of nowhere on their own, or the scene was just wrapping up.</p>
<p>If this occurs, with both the Storyteller and Player in agreement, the Character can postpone the Limit Break to a more appropriate scene—just don’t wait <em>too</em> long.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Attributes
----------

Attributes are a character’s raw, innate skills. They represent the
capacity and limitations of the body, mind, and soul. Attributes may be
trained and expanded on, but often take quite a bit of time and effort
to do so which is represented by their experience costs.

All Attributes start at Rating One, and may reach up to Rating Five.
There is nothing, save death, that can decrease a character’s Attribute
below One.

### Strength

*Physical Force*

Strength represents both the raw muscular strength a character contains,
as well as the intuition and practice to use it effectively.

### Dexterity

*Physical Finesse*

Dexterity is the fine control, reflexes, and agility a character has
over their own body

###  Charisma

*Social Force*

Charisma is a measure of how a character can outwardly express
themselves to others through active communication.

### Insight

*Social Finesse*

Insight is a measure of how a character can understand others by
observing their actions, words, and expressions. A character with high
Insight would be able to correctly guess and understand an other’s
motivation to predict their next actions—as well as manipulate them.

###  Intelligence

*Mental Force*

Intelligence is a measure of how a character can think logically,
organize thoughts, absorb information, and connect together disparate
pieces of information.

### Wits

*Mental Finesse*

Wits is a measure of intuition, common sense, and fast-thinking.
Whenever a character needs to react quickly, come up with a clever quip,
or intuit something with their “Street-Smarts,” they will use Wits.

Abilities
---------

Abilities are skills that have been honed, trained, and developed
through education and experience. Abilities range from Zero (0) to Five
(5).

**Natural** Abilities are those that any mortal (and thus Exalt) has the
capacity learn, train, and perform actions with. Characters may always
roll with a Natural Ability, even if they have 0 in the rating.

Martial

### Archery

Mastery of physical weapons that deal damage through projectiles. Covers
all weapons that have a launcher and projectiles, ranging from bows and
arrows to slings to the exotic flamepiece.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ammunition</p>
<p><em>Exalted</em> does not require the Player to keep track of their character’s ammunition. You only run out when it is dramatically appropriate, as decided by the Player.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Athletics

Athletics is a measure of *physical motion,* and covers anything that
might constitute aerobic exercise.

### Brawl

Mastery of the body, allowing attacks from any part of the limb, ranging
from kicking, punching, tripping, or grappling. While often performed
unarmed, Brawl has a selection of weapons that can be used, such as
brass knuckles.

### Melee

Mastery of the close-quarter weapons, such as swords, axes, or clubs.

### Physique

***Note**: Each point of Physique increases your Health by +1.*

Physique is the measure of fortitude and well-being, strength and
hardiness: the ability to shrug off attacks, poisons, and any
debilitation of the body or mind.

### Thrown

Mastery of physical weapons that deal damage hurling weapons at enemies,
such as knives, spears, and even improvised objects.

Social

### <span class="smallcaps">Bureaucracy</span>

Bureaucracy relates to all matters legal, organizational, and
mercantile.

### Command

Command covers the skills necessary to manage, inspire, and otherwise
direct people, typically in large groups.

### Integrity

Integrity is a measure of how tightly a character can keep to their
convictions, goals, and objectives without being influenced by outside
forces.

### Investigation

Investigation focuses on the ability to search, uncover, or otherwise
procure specific details, often revealing things that others do not want
revealed.

### Performance

Performance is the measure of not only how well a character is in the
technical nature of singing, dancing, or other such artistic expression,
but the ability to convey meaning and thoughts through those actions. A
skilled performer not only knows how to entertain their crowd, but also
knows how to incite that crowd into a frenzied riot should they desire.

### Socialize

Socialization is a way to relate and talk with people, making them feel
heard and personally connected with them.

### Subterfuge

Deception is the art of trickery, manipulation, and physical stealth.
Its masters are adept at getting people to do what they want without
them even realizing an outside influence is even there.

Utility

### Awareness

Awareness is a measure of alertness and impromptu understanding of
events through any and all of the senses.

### Craft

Craft is used to produce, analyze, and repair physical constructs and
moving parts. A crafter knows how to take raw discard material and turn
it into a wondrous, machines intended for mechanical and aesthetic
purposes.

### Lore

***Note:** See the special Action* [**Recall Fact**](/System/The System/#recall-fact)

Lore is both the breadth and depth of understanding in the world,
ranging from geographic knowledge to religion and philosophy.

### Medicine

Medicine is the study of the body and how it operates, spiritually,
mentally, and physically. Those with high Medicine will know how to
treat injuries, gather herbs, and strike at essence flow lines to heal
(or harm) their patient.

### Navigation

Navigation is the ability to traverse terrains—from land, to sea, to
jungle—and come out unscathed and on time. A trained Navigator will know
their hand at reigns, the stern of a ship.

### Stealth

The art of not being seen, from physical stillness to knowing how to
blend into a crowd. Also includes some tricks of the trade, such as
lockpicking.

### Survival

Survival is the ability to tame the wild-lands, ranging from scavenging,
to identifying dangerous animals, as well as how to track others.

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

**Supernatural** **Abilities** are those that are beyond the reach of
even the most talented mortal. No amount of training or skill can induct
a mortal into a Supernatural Ability-only by special circumstances will
the domain of the Gods be opened to them-such as Exaltation. Even then,
it is often a limited selection.

For example, those chosen to be a Dragon-Blooded are opened up to the
Elemental Abilities of Fire, Water, Air, Earth, and Wood, but are
restricted from the Lunar’s Shapeshifting Ability.

A minimum of Rating One is required to perform any Supernatural Ability,
and it cannot be learned without a specific Merit or Exaltation.

Since Supernatural Abilities are so closely tied with an Exaltation,
Gods, or Creature of Power, most will be detailed in their respective
books. Occult, however, is the only Supernatural Ability that is
available to all Exalts, and even some mortals.

### Occult

Sorcery is the method of twisting, changing, and exploiting the rules of
reality to the practitioner’s favor. The methods of doing so are arcane,
often requiring long, drawn-out rituals to perform correctly.

Occult encompasses many thing, but focuses primarily on Environmental
changes, summoning of demons, and control over the spirits of the world.

All Exalted, and even some mortals, have the potential to learn Occult.
However, they must be Initiated into the arts by some teacher or force.
A Player should be able to point to one of their Merits as a reasonable
source for their tutalage.

#### Uses

Occult, as a raw ability, can be used to sense the flows of essence
around the player, as well as setup low magic rituals which are called
“Thaumaturgies”. Examples include reading tea leaves, laying down a
protective salt circle, or performing an exorcism.

As well, studies in Occult will often give a base level understanding of
the difference between Spirits and otherworldly creatures of
power—though it will always be filtered through a light of what the
practical application is.

#### Restrictions

Occult is a broad skill, one that manipulates the very Essence that life
in Creation relies upon, so it can sometimes be unclear to allow
anything and everything through. So, there are a few guiding
restrictions when using Occult:

-   It takes time. Aside from the most basic uses, Occult is highly
    ritualistic, rarely being able to used in single action. It also
    often may only be done in specific times of the day, or with certain
    reagents.

-   The Essence flows of others cannot be changed or altered without a
    dedicated Power.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Occult Knowledge</p>
<p>Having occult confers a certain base level knowledge about spirits, demons, and other aspects of Creation—however it should be treated as a <em>compliment</em> to Lore, not a replacement.</p>
<p>A general rule of thumb is to think of Occult concerned more with the “practical application” of such knowledge, with Lore focusing more on the historical, cultural, and general knowledge.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Sample Thaumaturgies</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Read Tea Leaves</strong></td>
<td><p>While the stars are visible, spend at least 15 minutes performing a ceremony brewing, drinking and then studying tea.</p>
<p>After which, roll (Int + Occult). If 3+, you may ask the Storyteller a single question about the Fate or Destiny of a character that drank from the tea. The Storyteller must answer truthfully, but may do so cryptically or through riddles.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Unquenchable Flame</strong></td>
<td>Gather and arrange a set of rocks, no wider than the width of a horse, in a geometric pattern favored by Hesiesh, the Dragon of Fire. After striking each stone with either a wooden or steel rod, flame will erupt and burn between the rocks without need of fuel, nor doused by all but the harshest of winds or rain.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Exorcism</strong></td>
<td><p>By chanting, forming ritualistic circles, and performing a concentrated twisting of Essence, the sorcerer can banish a ghost or other underworld creature back to a Shadowlands.</p>
<p>This cannot be done with any unwilling, undefeated creature that has an Essence Rating.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 Custom Abilities
----------------

The provided Abilities are not considered comprehensive or exclusive
list-simply a selection that is expected to be most useful in the
Exalted setting. Creating abilities and charms custom to specific
characters or settings is not only allowed, but it is encouraged!

There are a few guidelines that must be followed when creating a new
ability:

-   An ability must be well-defined. If a couple of words do not
    communicate what the ability is about, and what it encompasses, then
    the theme needs to be refined some more.

-   It cannot be too broad. The provided abilities in the book should be
    the upper-limit on how broad of a theme an ability should be.

-   It cannot fully encompass another ability. There will often be
    overlap between abilities, which is allowed, but the custom ability
    should not simply be an ability and something else.

When creating charms for a custom ability, using and altering existing
charms is perfectly acceptable.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Shared Charms</p>
<p>When making a new ability that has the same design space as an other ability, many of the charms will be exactly the same. A character may use such purchased charm in both abilities, (so long as they meet the minimum ability requirement.) They do not need to purchase the charm twice.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Example Custom Abilities

-   **Drive**. Useful for a modern setting. Involves the natural
    handling of high-speed craft, ranging from finding ways around a
    complicated city to performing daring maneuvers to shake off
    pursuers. Pulls heavily from Navigation.

-   **Firearms**. Useful for a modern setting. In standard Exalted
    setting, firearms are the exception, a rare bauble and interest to
    be found. But in a modern setting, this would supplant the Archery
    ability as the primary ranged ability. Many of the charms would be
    similar.

-   **Cooking**. Typically, this ability is not marked on a character
    sheet, as it does not impact the story much. But if you are a grand
    cook, to such a great extent that you wish to form charms and powers
    around it, it can be its own specialized ability.

 Merits
------

A Merit is any sort of benefit or background that may help the
character, outside of their normal internal powers would grant.

Merits are often intimately tied to a character’s story—they have wealth
because they were born into it—and typically may only be gained or
upgraded during character creation, or through the Projects system
during campaign.

Almost all Merits are location or context-dependent, and so are often
restricted based on the nature of the story campaign.

When you purchase Contacts, for example, you must specify what their
nature is, and their location. i.e. “The assassins of the Eastern
Forests.”

Multiple merits of different locations and types can be purchased.

### Using Merits

Most of the time a Merit is just a statement of fact about your
character, and should simply shape the story with its presence—Followers
will do what you say, wealth backs a bribe attempt with truth, and an
ally will generally be helpful if they can be. A good rule of thumb is
that if the difficulty of the action is less than the rating of the
merit, it simply just happens.

On the rare cases when the outcome is uncertain, an appropriate
\[Attribute + (Ability or Merit rating)\] may be asked for. For example,
you may raise a glorious ancient artifact to prove your worth to a crowd
with \[Composure + Artifact rating\], attempt to convince an ally to do
a dangerous task for you with \[Charisma + Ally\], or know a piece of
obscure Lunar history with \[Intelligence + Fact: Silver Pact Member\]

#### Exhausting Merits

At the storyteller's discretion, a Merit can be exhausted for a period
of time after a large, impactful use of the merit, and be unable to be
used except in limited ways. For example, after a character with Wealth
(4) manages to bribe the Prince of a city into their pocket, the
Storyteller declares that this is a serious use of their Wealth merit,
and that all significant expenditure of their wealth is now tied up into
this one action and must recover.

The Storyteller designates the length of time the merit is exhausted,
though this cannot last longer than a single story.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Loss of Merits</strong></p>
<p>Merits, unlike Powers purchased by the player, are not guaranteed to be protected for the duration of the story.</p>
<p>Temporary restrictions to merits—such as an Ally being unable to help in this situation, even if the merit isn’t exhausted—is explicitly allowed. However, the Storyteller should always be judicious about such decisions.</p>
<p>During dramatic parts of the story—and with coordination between Storyteller and Player, merits can be permanently removed. This may be done through such things as a stunning defeat, or a tragic change in an Ally’s cause.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### General Merits

#### Fact

\(3\)

Facts are simple, undeniable statements about the character that may
help them in their adventures. They are the most free-form of all the
merits, and encompass anything from a description of a character’s
origin to markers of accomplishments.

Facts are typically chosen during character creation, awarded at the end
of a Story, or to mark completion of a significant world Project.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fact Levels</strong></p>
<p>Facts are set to 3 dots for ease of use—they are significant enough to impact the setting significantly, but not world changing. It is intended to be a “rule of thumb” for what should be written on the character sheet.</p>
<p>If there is a need for a higher or lower merit to be written down, it becomes its own custom merit—which is perfectly acceptable.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Natural Merits

#### Backing 

The Character is an official in an organization. Their rating represents
how much organizational power the character has.

The Character may instruct subordinates to Perform a Task without
question, so long as it is in line with the goals and morals of the
organization.

Backing 2 would either represent being the head of a local organization,
or the leader of a local chapter of a global organization, wheras
Backing 5 would represent being the head of a global organization of
great note.

#### Bond

***Special Note**: Bonded individuals must each have the Bond merit,
though the level does not need to be the same.*

Your soul has been entwined with another, uniting your Destinies. The
character instinctively knows if their Bond is in danger, and the
general direction they are in.

Influence to directly harm, endanger, or otherwise disadvantage their
Bond is treated as Unacceptable Influence. This may be used reflexively.

#### Contacts 

You have a network of contacts in a given location and class of society
willing to give you information. So long as you are in a location of
your contacts, there’s always someone with a friendly face, or who knows
someone who knows something.

#### Cult

The Character is a leader and/or target of worship for a religious cult.

*Disadvantage:* The cult requires periodic guidance and attention. As
well, it is often an unwelcome influence and potential political hazard.

#### Wealth

Wealth is a renewable source of money. A character with any source of
Wealth needs not worry for basic necessities or sustenance, and may
always purchase a place to rest.

Targets can be paid (or bribed) to Perform a Task without needing a roll
or any Social Influence. Some characters may refuse this offer, or even
be offended by it.

#### Ally

Allies are individuals, groups, or organizations that a character may
call upon to aid them in their endeavors—proven to be an asset.

Allies are not at the whim and mercy of the character—they have their
own lives and concerns to deal with, but they can be assumed to not
willingly or knowingly hurt the player character.

The Rating of Allies represents both the scale and influence of the
ally: Rating 1 would be a competent, but still mortal--guard. Rating 3
would be an Exalt or a medium spanning organization. Rating 5 would be a
high-rating God or an organization such as the Guild.

#### Artifact

**(2-5)**

Artifacts are items that contain wondrous, supernatural effects upon the
world. Artifacts typically have some sort of inherent supernatural
usefulness to them that is **immediately available** on purchase of the
artifact.

Evocations are Powers the artifact contains that must be awakened by
**additionally** purchasing Evocations with xp.

Rating 2 Artifacts are minor wonders: they have some sort of inherent
supernatural usefulness, such as a water skin inlaid with jade that
filters and purifies all water within. Rating 2 Artifacts have **no**
Evocations.

Rating 3 Artifacts may have a Lesser Evocation

Rating 4 Artifacts may have 2 Evocations, and have a Greater Evocation.

Rating 5 Artifacts have up to 3 Evocations, 2 Greater Evocations, and 1
Capstone Evocation.

####  Language

(1-2)

Each purchase of this merit represents a new language the Player
Character has learned to speak, read, and write in.

**Note**: All Characters start with 2 Languages, typically their Local
Tongue, and the trade Language Riverspeak.

1.  **Standard Language**:

    -   Specific **local** tongue.

    -   The Trade Language, **Rivertongue** (if not already known)

    -   **Directional Language**: While not a true language in itself, a
        Directional Language is a collection of general speech patterns
        and dialects that would fit as “close enough” with the local
        tongue of anybody living in the respective Cardinal Directions
        (Air, Wood, Fire, Water) to communicate most thing.

    -   **High Realm**, what is spoken by the elite in the center of the
        Realm. (Realm has completely taken over and eliminated
        Earthtongue).

        *Note: **“**Common” is relative to the character, and depends on
        the setting. A character from Autochthonia would find
        Autochthonian common, after all.*

<!-- -->

1.  **Uncommon Language:**

    -   **Old Realm**, which is what most First Age scrolls are written
        in, and still spoken by many Gods and Spirits.

    -   **Dragontongue**, the language of the Shogunate, enforced to be
        the common language before the Realm came to existence. Some
        traditional sects of mortals still hold onto this tradition.

    -   **Malfean**, a terrible tongue spoken only by demons.

    -   **Autochthonian,** A tongue spoken from those trapped inside the
        body of the great Maker.

###  Special Merits

#### Master Stylist 

\(3\) Mortal-Only

Allows a mortal to purchase Techniques of a specific Style, (excluding
Greater Techniques), and grants them a **3** mote pool that may only be
used on the style’s Techniques.

A Mortal may learn this merit on their own, though it is rare.

#### Mutation

A mutation represents any non-standard body configuration that may be
useful to the character. This is a boon (or curse, depending on
attitudes), is granted by sourcerous workings, the gods, and the eddies
of the dangerous Wyld.

|                      |          |                                                                                                                            |
|----------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Sample Mutations** |          |                                                                                                                            |
| **Name**             | **Cost** | **Description**                                                                                                            |
| **Toxin Resistance** | 1        | You can ignore small levels of a specified class of toxin, and gain a Moderate Advantage when resisting larger quantities. |
| **Natural Armor**    | 1        | You have scales, leather, or other natural armor. You are never without your armor.                                        |
| **Tail**             | 1        | You have a tail, which can be used as a limited-dexterity appendage.                                                       |
| **Fins**             | 2        | You may move normally through water. Your fins may be hidden or disguised.                                                 |
| **Wings**            | 2        | You may fly through the air. Your wings cannot be hidden.                                                                  |
| **Wings (Hideable)** | 3        | You may fly through the air. Your wings can be hidden at any time.                                                         |
| **Extra Limbs**      | 3        | You have another pair of dexterous arms and hands (or legs or tentacles)                                                   |

### Supernatural Merits

Most Supernatural Merits require *Storyteller Approval* to purchase, or
to grant to followers.

#### Endowment

(3-5)

Gain access to a Supernatural Ability normally outside your purview.
This must be given as a boon from a supernatural entity that already has
access to that Supernatural Ability.

Mortal Sorcerers must have this merit to access Sorcery or Necromancy.

Endowment grants access to a mote pool of 10 if the character does not
have one. This mote pool may only be used for this specific Endowment.

If a Mortal Exalts with this merit and that supernatural ability is
granted to them, they are refunded the merit costs.

**3**—Use of the Ability, but restricted in some way: For example:
Shapeshifting may be granted, but only into only one creature.

**4—**Use of the Ability, restricted in some way. In addition, they may
purchase Lesser Charms.

**5—**Use of the Ability in its entirety and the ability to purchase
Charms normally.

