---
layout: page
title: Solars [WIP]
page_type: exalt
order: 1
---

[<u>Exalted Reincarnated
Core</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C3q4JN6eVq54VIY2Q3gGDGnvU5dOC4St3XSGUV6Ylzg/edit?usp=sharing)

Introduction
============

Solars are the paragons of man. They turn the power of the Sun inward,
focusing and enhancing their abilities to peak power.

Solars resonate with artifacts made of **Orichalcum**, and may purchase
Evocations of those artifacts as though it was a Favored Power.

Character Creation
------------------

### Supernal

Solars gain a **Supernal** Ability, in addition to choosing Five (5)
Favored Abilities. A Supernal Ability can be chosen from any Natural
Abilities, as well as Sorcery.

A Supernal Ability is considered to be a Favored Ability for all aspects
of the game, such as for xp cost calculations. In addition, a Solar may
buy **Greater Charms and Martial Arts Techniques** that use their
Supernal Ability, even at Essence 1.

In the case of **Supernal Sorcery**, the Solar may be inducted into each
circle as though they were +2 Essence. They may enter into Sapphire
Circle at Essence 1, and Adamant Circle at Essence 3, gaining access to
their respective spells.

### Focused Anima Banner

\[\[Solars get extra bonuses while their anima banner is flaring\]\]

### Expanded Mote Pool

Solars gain an expanded Peripheral Mote pool: (Essence) + 5 additional
Motes, bringing the total to:

**Peripheral** 20 + (Essence) x3

### Defining Intimacy

A Solar *must* choose a Defining Intimacy as one of their three
intimacies.

Castes
------

### Dawn

\[\[Burning+, Gain 2 Impulse each round.\]\]

Spending a Strife Point, the Dawn immediately instills an emotion of
Fear, Awe, Intimidation, or similar emotion into up to (Essence)
targets. This may affect targets that normally do not feel said
emotions, such as golems and zombies.

*Associated Abilities:* Archery, Awareness, Brawl, Physique, Melee,
Leadership.

### Zenith

Spending a Strife Point, the Zenith’s flaring anima becomes a weapon
against all those that shirk from the Sun’s Gaze for the entire Scene..
All Creatures of Darkness who end their action within Close Range of the
Zenith immediately take 5 Damage. Any creature or being who dies in the
bathing light of the Zenith cannot be raised as a zombie or hungry
ghost.

*Associated Abilities:* Integrity, Performance, Persuasion, Leadership,
Physique, Navigation.

### Twilight

The Twilight’s mind brims with possibilities unseen to others. Spending
a Strife Point, the Twilight predicts a sequence of events that they,
and their companions, may take to bring about their desired result in a
scene. The Storyteller must accept this prediction as fact when crafting
the scene.

*Associated Abilities*: Awareness, Craft, Lore, Medicine, Politics,
Sorcery

### Night

The Night caste excels at secrecy and subtlety. By Spending a Strife
Point the Night may choose at any time during the Scene to conceal or
reveal their Anima Banner, up to Burning Level.

At Bonfire Level, they may instead curl their Anima inwards to obscure
all discerning characteristics--the existence of an Exalt is undeniable,
but no possible form of perception can reveal their identity.

*Associated Abilities*: Athletics, Awareness, Deception, Navigation,
Stealth, Thrown

### Eclipse

The Eclipse is the ultimate diplomat, and can bring even hardened
enemies to the table. Once per Story and by spending a Strife Point, the
Eclipse caste may force an armistice between two (or more) parties. For
the next scene, all involved are forced to meet peacefully, and cannot
attack each other during discussions.

In addition, an Eclipse may spend a Strife Point and sanctify an Oath
willingly made by Non-Player Characters. The NPC will not be able to
break said oath.

*Associated Abilities*: Deception, Integrity, Leadership, Lore,
Persuasion, Politics.

Strife Expression
-----------------

### Solar Excellency

The Solar chooses a Favored (or Supernal) Ability and then **doubles**
their permanent value for the remainder of the Scene. This effect also
carries over into any derived **Static Values.**

Who Becomes a Solar?
--------------------

The Unconquered Sun grants his blessing to those who have an incredible
drive, a force of personality that would change their world, regardless
of the Sun’s power. Often they already have.

The Sun does not judge the “righteousness” of the prospect’s drive or
personality, simply that they will use it. His blessing shines equally
on Just Rulers as it does Tyrants.

Great Curse
-----------

Solars are often plagued and defined by their **Ego.** Caretakers of
great power, they will see the problems and ills of the world only in
relationship to themselves.

Creatures of Darkness
---------------------

Solars have powers that are harmful to *Creatures of Darkness*. These
are any Spirits, demons, or other supernatural creatures whose bodies
and nature recoil at the sight of the sun. It is not some sort of
judgement of how good and moral the creature is, rather just a statement
of what powers sustain them.

Creatures of Darkness are any denizens of the **Underworld**, such as
ghosts, spectres, and zombies. The Exaltations **Abyssals** and
**Liminals** also fall under this category.

Demons that descend from the shadowy **Ebon Dragon** are also considered
to be Creatures of Darkness.

Soulfire
--------

\[\[Describe SoulFire/Sunfire here, and how it damages Creatures of
Darkness and why. Also decide if it’s called Soulfire or Sunfire\]\]

 

Global Charms
=============

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Inescapable Judgement

**Cost:** 2m  
**Type:** Supplemental  
**Mins:** (Ranged Ability) 1

With perfect control, the Solar lets loose a ranged attack that follows
a perfect arc, angle, or even a series of ricochets to reach its target,
diminishing the target’s Cover advantage by one level.

Archery
=======

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Spirit Piercing Technique

**Cost:** 2m, 1i  
**Type:** Supplemental (Attack)  
**Mins**: Archery 3

The Solar infuses their arrow with their golden anima. Once loosed, a
golden arch is let loose, which allows the archer to pierce any
Immaterial being, negating their Full Defense. Creatures of Darkness
suffer an additional (+Essence) damage from this attack.

### Solar Spike

**Cost:** 5m, 3i  
**Type:** Primary  
**Mins**: Archery 4

Conjuring the deepest Intimacy, the Solar lashes out with a spike of
Soulfire, launching a Flurry Attack against (Essence)x2 targets, and
deals +(Essence) base damage.

The spike dashes from target to target like lightning, and may continue
past the Solar’s typically range boundary so long as each target is
within Short Range of the last.

### Splitting the Arrow

**Cost:** 5m, 2i  
**Type:** Supplemental  
**Mins:** Archery 4

The Exalt strikes with unerring accuracy and lethality, finding the
smallest chink of armor and exploiting it. A Standard, non-Flurry Attack
becomes Unsoakable.

**Upgrade**: At Essence 4, this charm deals an extra +2 damage.

 

Greater Charms
--------------

### The Mark of Judgement

**Cost:** 8m, 3i  
**Type:** Primary; Scene  
**Mins**: Archery 4

The Solar marks a specific target, burning it perfectly into their mind.
The Solar Archer ignores all Partial Defenses against the target, and
gains +1 automatic success on attacks.

Alternatively a specific location may be marked (no larger than 6 meters
in diameter), allowing the Solar to freely and reflexively attack any
who enter the location. This does not grant the Partial Defense removal
or automatic success.

### Searing Sunfire Interdiction

**Cost:** 10m, 4i  
**Type:** Primary  
**Mins**: Archery 5

The Solar focuses all their Wrath into a single shot, and selects a
target location--such as where a person is standing. They then launch a
streaming arrow of light into the air.

At the start of the next Round, the arrow crashes down at the targeted
location, dealing \[Archery + (Essence) x2\] Undodgeable damage to all
within Short Range of the target location.

For the remainder of the scene, the affected area becomes bathed in
Soulfire Environmental Damage. (Essence) per Round.

 

Athletics
=========

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Shadow over Water

**Cost:** 2m  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Athletics 2

The Solar may negate up to (Essence) Disadvantages imposed on their
Evasion.

### Burning Corona Evasion

**Cost:** 3m  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Athletics 3

The Solar flares a glimpse of their anima at just the right moment,
temporarily blinding their opponent as they attack them. This does not
definitely reveal their Solar nature, as this flash of anima can be
attributed to tricks of the light.

When defending with Evasion, the Solar may force the attacker to lose 2
Impulse, If they do not have enough Impulse to be lost, the attack is
reduced by 1 damage.

### Foe-Vaulting Method

**Cost:** 4m  
**Type:** Secondary  
**Mins:** Athletics 3

Swift as the wind, the Solar may vault across, above, or around an enemy
with blurring speed.

Target a character that has not used their action this round, and can be
reached by a Move Action. Make a contested (Dex + Athletics) roll
against the Evasion. On Success, move to the Short Range band behind the
target, and force the target to lose (Threshold Successes) Impulse.

On a Failure, the Solar is left in Close Range with the target.

### Seven Shadows Evasion

**Cost:** 4m, 2i  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Athletics 4

The Solar is as swift as the shadows they cast, and may Increase their
Evasion against an attack by (Essence).

 

Greater Charms
--------------

### Sunlight’s Advance

**Cost:** --**  
Type:** Permanent  
**Mins:** Athletics 4

All of The Solar’s movement is doubled--rolls depending on speed add an
additional (Athletics) dice. Leaps and bounds are also doubled.

In combat, any Move Action may move up to Two Range Bands at no penalty.

### Eagle-Wing Style

**Cost:** 3m  
**Type:** Supplemental; Scene  
**Mins:** Athletics 5

By using the barest of scenery, be it lampposts, delicate tree branches,
or even coins the Solar carries with them to launch against, they Solar
may leap effortlessly through the air.

 

Awareness
=========

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Genius Palate Summation

**Cost:** 2m  
**Type:** Primary  
**Mins:** Awareness 3

The emotions and intentions of an individual bleed through to their
craftsmanship. Upon eating, imbibing, or otherwise interacting with food
(or drink) prepared or handled by an individual, make a Read Intentions
Action against them.

### Unsurpassed Sense Discipline

**Cost:** 4m  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Awareness 3

The Solar reduces Awareness disadvantages due to distance by up to
(Essence) dice. This also opens up Awareness checks up to twice the
normal distance--they can clearly hear or see across a field.

### Inner Eye Focus

**Cost:** 4m  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Awareness 4

Reroll an Awareness Roll, taking the preferred result. This may only be
done once.

### Living Pulse Perception

**Cost:** 3m  
**Type:** Primary  
**Mins:** Awareness 4

By focusing all their senses into a single point, the Solar can gather a
trace of all living, breathing, and/or moving creatures.

This allows a roll against all hidden creatures that breathe, live, or
are currently in motion in the current scene, and eliminates up to
(Essence) penalties that would be applied against the roll.

 

Greater Charms
--------------

### Eye of the Unconquered Sun

**Cost:** 10m  
**Type:** Primary; Scene  
**Mins:** Awareness 5

For a Moment, the Caste Mark of the Solar flares up for all to see and
becomes a focal lens for the Inner eye, revealing all to the Lawgiver.

For that brief moment, all characters in the scene can be sensed, giving
a snapshot of their current position, and movement.

As well, roll a (Cunning + Awareness). All characters in the scene with
(Essence) less or equal to the roll are valid targets for any future
perception during the scene, regardless of obstacles such as hiding
behind walls.

Brawl
=====

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Heaven Thunder Hammer

**Cost:** 3m  
**Type:** Supplemental  
**Mins:** Brawl 1

On a Brawl Attack that hits, the target(s) are thrown back or down one
range band of the Brawler’s choice.

If they impact a wall or other solid surface, deal an additional
(Essence) amount of damage--potentially shattering the impacted surface.

Throwing creatures of a size class or above the character does not deal
the extra damage, but still may shatter the surface.

### Solar Cross-Counter

**Cost:** 3m, 2i  
**Type:** Reflexive  
**Mins:** Brawl 2

After taking damage from an opponent in Close Range, the Solar may
reflexively lash out and deal the same amount of damage to the opponent,
capped at (Essence)x3.

The Brawler may intentionally choose to be hit (lowering their DV) for
this effect.

### Thousand Brilliant Blows

**Cost:** 4m, 1i (+1i per attack)  
**Type:** Simple  
**Mins:** Brawl 3

Make a Flurry Attack against a single target, hitting it repeatedly. No
more than 2 + (Essence) flurried attacks may be made.

### Blunt Force Avalanche

**Cost:** 3m, 1i  
**Type:** Supplemental  
**Mins:** Brawl 4

This may only Supplement a Brawl attack that is using the Strength
Attribute.

The attack becomes Unsoakable.

###  

Greater Charms
--------------

### Titan-Strangling Method

**Cost:** --  
**Type:** Permanent  
**Mins:** Brawl 4

Allows grappling of a character regardless of size with no size
penalties. As well, there are no restrictions on restraining the entire
body, moving, or even throwing a creature based on size.

Craft
=====

Lesser Charms
-------------

### Chaos-Resistance Preparation

**Cost:** 8m  
**Type:** Primary; (Essence) Weeks  
**Mins:** Craft 4

Reinforce an object no larger than (Essence) meters in its largest
dimension.

For (Essence) Weeks, that object, and anything inside of it, become
resistant to the chaotic effects of the Wyld, gaining (Essence)
difficulty to warp it.
