---
layout: page
title: System
type: core
order: 1
---

Exalted Reincarnated

Dragonmystic

**Contributors from and Special Thanks to:**

Codex, DeProf Gaming, Effendoor, Exthalion, Insuling,  
Jancarius, Kaleth, Ortha, Redman808, The Red One, SkyBoundFencer,  
Soarin1, Sponsored by Nobody, Tsurumah, and Zeus

[<u>Development Discord Channel</u>](https://discord.gg/JxmYUSD)

*Upon your brow lies the mark of a God: a brand of power that sets you
apart from mortals, given in a moment of transcendent glory--regardless
of your desire for the power.*

*With it, a vast wealth of supernatural power lies at your fingertips:
tasks that you once toiled and struggled against are easily swept aside.
Tasks that you deemed impossible suddenly a very real possibility.*

*Yet this land you reside in, this Creation, is filled with dangerous
creatures, monsters, Spirits and Gods that is now your responsibility to
deal with.*

*It is for you to decide what should be protected, what should be
furthered; what is ultimately right and wrong.*

But you are not alone. There are other Exalts that wander the world,
each with their own agenda, ideas, and morality.

*You are Chosen, you are EXALTED.*

Preface
=======

**Exalted**, by **Onyx Path Publishing,** is a role-playing game
blending together high-action combat, social intrigue, and epic-scale
actions from demigod heroes.

The setting is full of rich lore, intricacies, and horrors that inspire
and captivate the mind, begging to be explored by a hero of grand scale.

However, the complexity and sheer size of the rules structure makes
playing the game a daunting task, even for experienced role-players.

**Exalted Reincarnated** is a fan-made work to rebuild and recreate
Exalted from the ground up to better match its rich Lore, Setting, and
Style.

Unofficial
----------

This is Fan-Made material. It is unofficial, and makes no claims of
ownership over Onyx Path Publishing materials.

You will need the official *Exalted* books for lore, setting and
reference material. *Exalted Reincarnated* makes assumptions based off
of Third Edition, but can be played with any of the editions.

Feedback
--------

This project is constantly evolving and changing. If you find problems
or want to simply share suggestions, please do so!

*Have fun!*

Introduction
============

Exalted is a game where the heroes are demigods, fonts of power. That
which mortals toil and test against fall easily against the might of the
Exalts, and the Exalts now test their mettle against the monsters and
problems of the world: from the chaotic fae beasts which rip at the
edges of the world, to the horrid effects of greed and systemic
corruption that hides in the hearts of man.

More often than not, they will succeed in what they have set their mind
to-yet they must explore the consequences and repercussions of such
actions.

To play Exalted, there are a few core setting themes that should be
followed:

Actions are Momentous

The Player Character is the right person at the right time to change the
world--for better or for worse. This blessing and burden cannot be given
to another, and the Gods are restrained in their actions for reasons
ranging from arcane laws, to being involved in their own machinations,
to being too weak to do anything.

From the small, personal stories to world-shattering changes, the Exalt
stands at the center of it.

What is Done Cannot be Undone

Exaltations cannot be rescinded, the dead cannot return to life except
in a hollow mockery of what they once were, and the progress of time is
constantly moving forward. Exalts must face the consequences of all
their actions.

The Heroes are Flawed

Despite all of their powers and might, Exalts are still human and carry
with them their flaws--and this does not make them any less of a hero.

Dice
----

*Exalted Reincarnated* uses multiple ten-sided dice (d10s). It is
suggested to have fifteen dice (real or virtual). The dice will
represent digits between 1 and 10. (Some dice will have a 0, treat that
as a 10).

As well, having an allotment of various tokens-such as coins or poker
chips-can help keep track of values that change within a scene.

Setting
-------

Creation trembles, poised at the turn of a new age. She strains as the
systems and rules which long held her together collapse around her. Her
population have become thrown into chaos, a time uncertain: a Time of
Tumult.,

The mighty Realm, whose reach expanded even out of the Blessed Isle, has
lost her Empress with no heir declared. Now, each Dragonblooded Clan
vies to claim the throne for their own, whether it be by politics or by
force--ignoring all else that goes on around them.

The Silver Pact, that loose association only tied together by their
hatred and resistance to the Realm, find their alliances crumbling.
Their stances mutate and shift just as their Lunar leaders do. Deep
rivalries and opposing systems clash as they turn their attention from
the faltering and collapsing Realm onto each other.

The Great City of Thorns has fallen, another wellspring of Death and her
servants bubbling up from the ever-present threat of the Underworld.

The silent and secretive Sidereals, those Seers from their hidden
places, watch, attempting to hold together what strands of Fate and
Reality they might, bickering on what Is and what Shall Be.

All the while, the minor powers seek to claim their own lands and hold
in this uncertain time.

In this time, the Sun has brought his Chosen back, those great heroes,
those terrible Mad Emperors.

System

Action Rolls
============

When a character encounters a situation where their success is
uncertain, the Storyteller should call for an Action Roll to determine
the outcome.

Dice System
-----------

The Storyteller will ask for a combination of an Attribute and Ability
that is appropriate for the situation, and then determine an appropriate
Difficulty for the roll.

The Player will then roll a number of Ten-Sided Dice (d10’s) equal to
the combined rating of the selected Attribute and Ability--this combined
number is called the Dice Pool.

This will be referred to as \[Att+Abi\] xd10’s.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Only roll if the Result is unknown</strong></p>
<p>If the outcome of an action is already known beforehand (either as a failure or a success), there is no need for a roll--simply declare what happens and continue on with the story.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Successes

After rolling their Dice Pool, the player needs to count the number of
dice that are showing digits equal or greater than the Target Number of
7. Examine the results of six rolled dice:

**1, 4, 4, 7, 8 , 8**

The values of 7, 8, and 8 are greater than or equal to (7), so they are
each counted as a success, meaning this particular roll would result in
4Successes.

### Double 10’s

A die that shows 10 is counted as two successes, rather than one. If the
roll had instead been:

**1, 4, 4, 7, 8, 10**

7 and 8 would be counted once, and 10 counted twice, making 4 successes
on the roll.

### Difficulty

*Before a roll is performed*, the Storyteller should determine the
**Difficulty** of the roll--the number of successes that the roll must
match or exceed for the action to be considered a success.

-   **Difficulty 1 (Easy)**- This task is expected to be passed by a
    skilled mortal, but there is still a reasonable risk of failing.

-   **Difficulty 3 (Typical)**- This task is challenging to a mere
    mortal, but a hero is expected to pass it. Picking a lock, calming
    an irate guardsman, or basic first aid would fall under this
    category.

-   **Difficulty 5** **(Difficult)**- Tasks which are daunting fall in
    this category--climbing a sheer cliff in winds, charming a staunch
    Dynast with sweet words, or avoiding the bite of a venomous beast.

-   **Difficulty 7 (Challenging)**- Tasks which should be
    near-impossible for any mortal. Such as noticing things in pitch
    darkness, or landing on a precise spot hundreds of feet below.

-   **Difficulty 9 (Impossible)**- Tasks a mortal could not possibly do,
    no matter the circumstances. Running straight up a building, leaping
    across a chasm unassisted, or keeping a patient alive without a
    heart for hours at a time with their bare hands.

### Threshold Successes

Some rolls are not as much concerned with *whether* the character
succeeds, but *by how much*. This is simply the difference between the
total Number of Successes rolled, and the Difficulty.

If a Player rolled Four (4) Successes on a Difficulty One (1) task, they
would then have Three (3) Threshold Successes.

### Contested Actions

Certain actions are contested between abilities of two or more
characters, rather than a simple difficulty.

In this case, all characters simply roll their appropriate Dice Pool,
and compare who got the highest number of Successes.

#### Taking the Average

The Storyteller should take the average number of successes for
non-player characters as ½ their Dice pool, which is their \[Att +
Ability +/- Modifiers\]

> *There are two characters in the scene: a guard and a thief. The guard
> is keeping watch, and the thief is attempting to sneak past them. The
> dice pool for the player-controlled thief would be Dexterity +
> Stealth.*
>
> *Since this is a NPC, and there are no dice-affecting powers active,
> the storyteller simply takes the average: (Cunning + Awareness)/2.
> Should the thief match or surpass that number, they successfully sneak
> past. Should they not, the guard discovers them*.

Drawbacks
---------

Exalts can push themselves past their mortal limits and achieve the
impossible--but it often comes at a price.

Ater the Player rolls and all effects finalized, the Player may choose
to **Take a Drawback**. In exchange, they gain **+2 successes** to a
roll, or **+1** **Defense**. Only one drawback may be taken per action.

**Note:** Drawbacks cannot be taken for Luck Rolls, Limit Break, Join
Battle or anything else that uses a 1d10 as its roll.

A Drawback can be any sort of action that the Storyteller deems to be a
proper **Price to Pay** for succeeding (or exceeding) their roll.

The following are a list of Examples, but should not be treated as
exhaustive or exclusive:

### Gain Limit

*Immediately Limit Break at 10.*

The character gains 1 point of [<u>Limit</u>](#limit), representing the
spiritual stress required to do the task.

### Wound/Exhaustion

*Cannot take more than (-5) total Wounds/Exhaustions at a time.*

The strain from pushing beyond their natural constraints causes the
character to become injured or exhausted.

For the remainder of the scene, and then until the character can take an
uninterrupted, restful night’s sleep, the character suffers (-1) dice to
any roll made with the Attribute Category (Physical, Social, or Mental)
they used on this roll.

### The Scene Turns Sour

*This Drawback may only be taken once per scene.*

After this action, the scene becomes negative, if not mildly hostile,
towards the character. Perhaps they offended a vital character with
their action, or they accidentally gave a secret up to the Antagonist
that they can use.

Botching
--------

If a character fails their action, they may choose to *worsen* their
failure dramatically, as represented by taking a Drawback. In exchange,
they will gain a [**<u>Strife Point</u>**](#strifes).

If at all possible, the Player should try to include their **Great
Curse** as reasoning for this Botch. Perhaps a prideful character could
not help but reveal a secret in their boasting; a compassionate one
unable to hide their disgust at conditions of the city when talking to
an official.

Advantages and Disadvantages
----------------------------

The difficulty of an action can be modified by various conditions,
whether it be environmental, helpful, or antagonistic. Advantages and
Disadvantages are collectively called **Modifiers**.

Advantages grant characters extra dice to roll with on their action,
whereas Disadvantages increase the difficulty of the roll.

For clarity, Advantages are written as (+X) dice, whereas Disadvantages
are written as (-X)--as they can also be interpreted as losing successes
from a roll.

Any **Modifier** should be something significant to the scene--something
that would perturb even an Exalt. A light rain, while thematic, would
not count as a disadvantage. Only when the levels of pummeling rain
(-1), or even a raging Typhoon (-4)

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Natural Modifiers and Difficulty</strong></p>
<p>Difficulty is a measure of “Base difficulty + all Disadvantages”. This can often be forgotten when choosing a Difficulty for a task, or when countering specific modifiers.</p>
<p>If a player removes the “visual impairment” modifier from a Difficulty 7 task, it is up to the Storyteller to decide how much of the Difficulty for the task was a result of “visual impairment”, and how much is simply the base difficulty of the task.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Stunting
--------

The setting of *Exalted* encourages wild, ambitious, and perhaps
dangerous actions of the characters. When a player describes their
character doing a “cool” action, the Storyteller should reward them.

When a player performs a stunt, they get **+2 Dice** for their action.

But the true power is that-should they succeed on the roll-what the
player describes is what actually happens in the setting. What is
impossible becomes temporarily possible. A list of example Stunts is
provided with each Ability, as inspiration.

There are limits to Stunting. A Player cannot dictate the actions or
emotions of characters, for example, and the Storyteller reserves the
right to reject or alter the stated effects of the stunt as needed.

The guiding philosophy of stunts is the “Rule of Cool.” If the stated
action is “cool” and enhances an existing action, it should both be
allowed and encouraged.

### Assisting

A player may assist another character, granting them +2 dice. The
receiving character may only accept one Assist per roll.

The Receiving Player may both accept an Assist, as well as stunt their
own action.

Assisting is considered a Primary Action.

Essence
-------

Essence is the fundamental energy that flows through the world, all
creatures, and mortals. Exalts are able to guide their own Essence flows
to create powerful effects upon the world, called Charms.

A character’s Essence Rating is a measure of how in tune the character
is with the flows of energy through and surrounding them. Much like an
Attribute, it has a Rating ranging between One and Five. (Mortals have a
Rating of Zero.)

The Rating of Essence cannot be directly trained. Instead, it only
increases in rating as the character gains xp.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Uniqueness of Player Characters</strong></p>
<p>Player Characters are unusual in the sheer speed and heights they can reach with Essence. The constant stress and challenge of adventure accelerates the gain of Essence far beyond what is normal in the world of Exalted.</p>
<p>Non-Player Characters do not follow the same rapid gain of Essence that Player Characters do, and are often constrained and capped, limiting what Essence Rating they can reach based on their circumstances.</p>
<p>Dragonblooded, for example, would find it takes a lifetime to even reach Essence 3--only the eldest of their kind would have access to Major Charms.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Motes

Essence expenditure is measured in *Motes*. When activating a Power that
requires motes of Essence the exalt will drain from their mote pools:
**Personal** and/or **Peripheral.**

**Personal Motes** are intrinsic to the character. Expenditure of these
motes are subtle and do not agitate their anima banner. However, they
regain more slowly at a rate of **2 Motes per Hour** of non-strenuous
activity.

**Peripheral Motes** are the character’s ability to manipulate the world
immediately surrounding them, channelling it to their will. Using these
motes will **expose their anima banner**.

Peripheral Mote pools are automatically refilled at the start of each
Scene.

#### Antagonistic Locations

There are certain locations that are either devoid of Essence, such as
the **Underworld**, or are filled with antagonistic Essence that cannot
be easily drawn inward, like **The Wyld**.

In these locations, all characters will suffer a Penalty to their
Peripheral Mote pool, lowering their capacity.. For example, the penalty
suffered by Underworld would be as follows, as the characters descends
deeper away from Creation:

-   Shadowlands: -5

-   Underworld: -10

-   The Labyrinth: -15

-   The Void: -20

Anima Banner
------------

Exalts are brimming with energy, their souls suffused with the crackling
energy.

Whenever a character **uses Peripheral Motes**, this energy crackles to
life, and their very soul starts to show to the world in the form of the
**Anima Banner**--a display of light that starts as a soft glow and
eventually escalates to a towering bonfire of personal iconography and
symbols deeply personal to the character.

**Using enough Peripheral Motes in a single action** will inflame the
anima banner:

-   **(0m) Dim** The natural state of the anima. It is invisible to all
    natural senses, but may be seen by those that can peek into the
    Spirit Realm.

-   **(1-5m) Glowing** A thin outline of the anima appears around the
    character, with the respective Caste Mark appearing on their brow.
    Characters may still disguise and hide their anima through mundane
    means, such as clothes.

-   **(6-10m) Burning** Essence burns and sheds from the Exalts body,
    much like the burning of a fire. Hiding the anima at this level is
    impossible through mundane means.

-   **(11m+) Bonfire** A grand display of solidified Essence wraps
    around the body, shining its personal iconography to all of those in
    the scene.

Anima Flare takes 15 minutes to naturally abate and decrease in rating,
so long that no action inflames them again. Often, this means that the
Burning and Bonfire Levels will be active for an entire scene.

Exalts may choose to intentionally increase their anima to any desired
level by committing One Mote (as a Reflexive Action.). This effect
immediately dissipates after releasing the mote to its natural state,
and does not need time to abate.

#### Splitting Motes

When taking an action, a Player may split their motes between their
Personal and Peripheral motes in order to avoid their Anima banner
flare.

For example, activating a 10m charm can avoid a Burning Bonfire anima
level by paying 5m from the Personal Mote pool, and 5m from the
Peripheral Mote pool. Doing so would only activate the Glowing Anima
level.

The Great Curse
---------------

Exaltation is a great and wondrous blessing from the Gods, but with it
comes a great and terrible Curse. Perhaps, as the ancient and lost
stories speak, the slain Enemies of the Gods lay this Curse upon their
servants as a last, spiteful word in their dying breath. Or perhaps it
is simply inalienable nature of man, exemplified and given root in
power.

Regardless of its source, every Exalt carries with them the Great Curse,
an aggrandized character flaw that can interrupt and sabotage a
character’s well meaning in spite of their better nature.

Each Exaltation carries with a different interpretation and influence of
the Great Curse:

-   **Solars** suffer by their own Ego. They are those that tirelessly
    seek greatness and perfection, and may find others or even
    themselves not up to the standards they desire.

-   **Lunars** suffer from being trapped between worlds and are
    conflicted by the unknown. Are they man or beast? A part of society
    or apart from it? Their form is constantly shifting, so who are they
    really?

-   **Abyssals** have a portion of their self consumed by the void:
    something that is lost and that can never be reclaimed. It may be
    their name and relations; their lost vitality; a loss of emotion and
    feeling.

Each individual Exaltation book details their Great Curse, but it is
important to know that these are all *suggestions*. So long as a
character has a flaw that affects their decision, it is an acceptable
Great Curse.

### Limit

The stress and wear of an Exalt’s life will build and press upon them,
eventually driving them to a breaking point. This is represented by
**Limit Points**.

Ranging from 0-10, **Limit Points** represent how strained the Exalt
is--how much wear and tear their psyche and soul is under.

A character gains limit by:

-   Choosing it as a Drawback.

-   Acting against one of their Intimacies, or other deeply-held
    beliefs. (One Limit per scene).  
      
    This can range from directly suppressing Intimacies in order to
    proceed with the “greater good”, to being tricked and swindled into
    taking action against your Intimacies, such as through Social
    Influence.  
      
    Ultimately, the decision of whether or not the Character has “acted
    against their Intimacy” is a personal one, and should be at sole
    discretion of the Player.

If the character reaches **10 Limit**, or if they fail on their **Limit
Trigger**, the character will enter into a **Limit Break.**

At the end of a Limit Break, reset to 0 Limit.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Calming Effect of Time</strong></p>
<p>Typically, Limit <em>only</em> resets after a Limit Break. However, long spans of rest, meditation, and peace may ease the Exalt down from their stressed life.</p>
<p>So long as the time breaks are particularly restful, the Exalt may lose 1 Limit per week.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Limit Triggers

When detailing out their Great Curse, the Player will also need to
decide what sort of events will **inflame** their Great Curse. This is
called the **Limit Trigger.**

A compassionate character might balk whenever they see a wanton,
senseless act of cruelty upon another--such as a slave being whipped.
Another might be the sense of failure and dejection when a plan spirals
out of control.

When this event occurs (and the character has at least 2 Limit,) the
Player must roll a 1d10. If the die roll matches or exceeds their
current Limit, the Character is able to control their emotions for the
remainder of the scene. (They do not have to roll multiple times in a
scene).

However, if the roll is **under** the current Limit, the Character
enters a **Limit Break**.

### Limit Break

When a character **Limit Breaks,** they lose all perspective on anything
that does not align with their **Great Curse** and will make active and
considered effort to fulfill it, damn the consequences.

A character Limit Breaking does not lose their faculties, nor do they
forget their Intimacies--but those are simply *secondary* to their Great
Curse. Often they will use convoluted and strange reasoning to justify
their actions.

A Limit Break lasts for an entire scene. Only performing a grave offense
against their own deeply-held Intimacies would be enough to snap the
character out of their actions.

At the end of a Limit Break, reset Limit to 0.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Ticking Time Bomb</strong></p>
<p>There will be occasions when a character enters Limit Break, but turning it into a Limit Break Scene just doesn’t fit--it occurred during a lighthearted scene, or when the Exalt is in the middle of nowhere on their own, or the scene was just wrapping up...</p>
<p>If this occurs, with both the Storyteller and Player in agreement, the Character can postpone the Limit Break to a more appropriate scene--just don’t wait <em>too</em> long.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Strifes
-------

The world of Creation will push even the mighty Exalted to the brink,
and in those moments of desperation, forcing them to delve into reserves
they did not know they had. This moment is called a **Strife**.

Players are restricted to keeping no more than **5 Strife Points** at a
time. If Strife is gained above this limit, it must immediately be spent
in the Scene or be lost.

### Using Strife

#### Strife Expression

Each Exalt and their Caste, has a unique **Expression** that can boost
their Dice rolls.

For example, Solars may double a favored dice, while Sidereals
manipulate what the Target Number of a roll will be.

Each Exalt’s particular Strife Expression is detailed in their
respective book.

#### Turn the Scene

In addition to their Exalt and Caste Strife Expressions, all players may
use a strife point to **Turn the Scene** (typically in their Favor.)

There is no roll required: the Player describes the actions their
character does, and it simply happens.

So long as a character *should* be able to do something, and it is
*cool* for them to do so, it *does.* In this way, Turning the Scene can
be thought of as a more powerful Stunt.

There are a few guiding restrictions to keep in mind, similar to a
Stunt:

-   Other character’s actions cannot be dictated: only those under
    control of the Player’s.

-   The Action cannot *directly* solve the scene; it can only assist and
    guide it.

-   The Action should flow naturally from the character--a Solar cannot
    suddenly shapeshift, for example.

##### Example 1

> *The Archer turns from the Dragonblood threatening her and focusing
> her essence into a point on their arrow. With a sharp hiss of air, she
> lets it loose into the nearest mountain, watching as the arrow
> explodes in an impressive show of Anima. The mountain rumbles as the
> snow dislodges, causing the newly-fallen snow to groan, rumble, and
> then start cascading into a deadly avalanche which rushes into the
> passage, sealing it and cutting off the dynasts reinforcements.*

“I’m going to use my archery to cause an avalanche”. This example
accomplishes two dramatic things: it changes the environment, but
ultimately it is about stopping the Antagonist’s time constraint on
their battle. It assists the Player and their scene, but does not solve
the pressing issue--the fight with the Dragonblooded.

##### Example 2

> *The Sorcerer looks apprehensive at his map. The desert has become
> inhospitable to their travels, and the rations for their mortal
> followers slim--if a solution isn’t found, they will arrive exhausted,
> or be forced to take a detour through the Guild’s controlled areas.
> His brown furrows, then suddenly shoots up: “Turn the caravan west, I
> see a Dragonline I can tap for water!”*

“He’s going to use Sorcery to pull up water from the ground.” In this
situation, the problem being addressed is exhaustion or avoiding a bad
decision--preventing a negative.

##### Example 3

> *The Crafter analyzes the complex door in front of them, which is
> blocking their way, the code shifting and twisting before their eyes.
> “I can simply craft a new key to the puzzle. Hold on for a moment.”*

“The door is locked? I can just open it with crafting.” Is **bad**
because the main objective of this scene is to get past the door
blocking their path. In a different scene where the door was not the
main obstacle, this *might* be acceptable. Instead, an alteration can be
suggested:

> *The Crafter analyzes the shifting patterns of the door, then with a
> swift kick, lodges one of the panels shut, stopping the patterns from
> constantly moving. “There, that should be easier to read now.”*

“The puzzle glyphs are moving? I’m going to jam them down so it lowers
the difficulty.”

### Gaining Strife

Strife may be gained through two ways: **Botches** and **Scene
Complications**.

[<u>Botches</u>](#botching) are Player-driven choices to drive their
character's failure into a *magnificent* failure--a low so that they may
later rise to even greater heights.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Rejecting Strife</strong></p>
<p>Players, by accepting the Strife, are giving up their ability to change the course of the event.</p>
<p>They have the option of refusing to take the Strife Point, defying the Storyteller's influence. (This must be an all-or-nothing decision between all Players receiving the Strife--all must reject, or else all must accept.)</p>
<p>If this happens, the Storyteller must let the Player Characters challenge the event in a fair manner.</p>
<p>The Storyteller should also take care not to <em>abuse</em> the Complication mechanic to the point where it becomes unfun--if they find that Players are constantly rejecting Strife, or grumbling and accepting, make sure to talk with the Players to see if the direction of the game is what everyone agrees with.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Complications

A **Complication** is a tool for the Storyteller to inject danger,
twists, and story momentum into the Story--*without Player Characters
being able to meaningfully react.* (The Characters will almost certainly
react, but the outcome is a forgone conclusion.)

In other words, while Players can spend Strife to Turn the Scene in
their *favor*, Storytellers can give Strife to Turn the Scene *against*
the Players--not simply describe challenges or consequences of actions.

The Storyteller gifts a Strife Point to all Players who are affected by
this event--and this single Strife Point guarantees the *outcome* of the
event in the Scene, no matter how many attempts are made.

**Examples:**

-   An Antagonist group escapes after their defeat in a fight,
    slipping &gt; the bonds or escaping pursuit.

-   The Caves the Party is in start rumbling, warning of an
    imminent &gt; collapse in but two short Rounds.

-   A source of information shoots down interrogation techniques, &gt;
    refusing to divulge important details.

The main source of Strife is gained by players choosing to **Botch**
their rolls.

Another source is being gifted a point by the Storyteller in exchange
for letting certain events unfold as described--in spite of Player
actions. For example, after a combat scene with a recurring antagonist,
the Storyteller would grant a Strife point to allow the antagonist to
escape without a (successful) pursuit, so they can lick their wounds and
try again.

Elsewhere and Equipment
-----------------------

The mechanisms of reality are flawed. Items, particularly those not paid
attention to, have a tendency to reappear and move to alternate
locations. Mortals will often attribute this forgetfulness, or not
recognize the incongruity at all, when in reality it is the tireless
motions of the Loom taking shortcuts.

Exalts, long ago, learned how to quietly and easily exploit this--simply
though sleight of hand, they can store their physical items in places
and not feel the weight nor brunt of the equipment. It is not unusual
for an Exalt to suddenly pull out a large daiklaive from little more
than a handbag’s opening.

Sidereals have labeled this flaw as “Elsewhere,” since the items are
neither here nor there, but somewhere “else..” It is certainly a problem
that needs to be fixed...eventually.

Elsewhere is not all-powerful. The Exalt must reasonably be able to
carry the items in the first place, and it must not be something that
has a particularly close and important tie to reality. For example:
living creatures or anything with sapience. As well, while time does not
affect items inside of Elsewhere, it will rapidly catch up once pulled
out.

Items stored in Elsewhere of a dead Exalt will eventually reassert
themselves into reality--often by finding themselves in nearby
containers that may not have existed until needed for this precise
purpose.

Storyteller Timelines
---------------------

Rather than count the exact minutes and hours of effects, Exalted rely
on a more cinematic approach. A charm’s duration may be declared as a
*Scene*, for example.

-   **Round** How long it takes for all characters to each perform a set
    of Actions, typically in Combat or an Encounter.

-   **Scene** Long enough to set out and accomplish a single, dedicated
    task. Combat from start to finish would be a scene, as would
    characters searching for clues in an old abandoned monastery. This
    typically spans minutes to hours.

-   **Session** A single sitting of when Players begin and end
    roleplaying, spanning an entire night.

-   **Story** Several sessions that form a full narrative arch: from
    establishing a threat to reaching the resolution.

-   **Chronicle** A complete game, encompassing all the stories relevant
    to a set of characters.

Magnitudes
----------

*Exalted* is styled in more of a cinematic, broad-sweeping style game
rather than a precise simulation wargame. Instead of detailing out every
person, time frame, or area, it will instead deal with measures of
*magnitude.*

Some Powers will declare an increase (or decrease) in a *magnitude*.
Those magnitude definitions are as follows:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 32%" />
<col style="width: 17%" />
<col style="width: 20%" />
<col style="width: 29%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Group Magnitudes</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td>Population</td>
<td>Name</td>
<td>Military Designation</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>0</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Individual</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>10</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Party/Group</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Squad</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>50</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Crowd</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Troop</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>100</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Hamlet</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Company</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>500</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Village</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Battalion</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Town</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Regiment</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>6</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>10,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>City</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Army</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>7</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>100,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Prefecture</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>8</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1,000,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Province</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table style="width:57%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 27%" />
<col style="width: 29%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Time Magnitudes</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td>Name</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>0</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Second (Instant)</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Minute (Moment)</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Hour</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Day</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Week</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Month</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>6</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Season</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>7</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Year</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>8</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Decade</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>9</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Century</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Attributes
==========

Attributes are a character’s raw, innate skills. They represent the
capacity and limitations of the body, mind, and soul. Attributes may be
trained and expanded on, but often take quite a bit of time and effort
to do so.

Each Attribute is categorized as either **Force, Finesse**, or
**Resilience.** These characterizations represent how the Attribute is
typically used in the style of play.

All Attributes start at Rating One, and may reach up to Rating Five.
There is nothing, save death, that can decrease a character’s Attribute
below One.

Physical
--------

### Strength

**Force**

Strength represents both the raw muscular strength a character contains,
as well as the intuition and practice to use it effectively. It is used
to calculate **Base Damage,** the **Attack Roll** of Heavy Weapons, as
well as feats of strength such as lifting, breaking, and climbing.

### Dexterity

**Finesse**

Dexterity is the fine control, reflexes, and agility a character has
over their own body. It is used to calculate the **Attack Roll** of
Light Weapons, as well as **Evasion**, and can help with various tasks
such as balance, dancing, and lockpicking.

### Stamina

**Resilience**

Stamina is how characters sustain physical activity over a period of
time. Everything from running a marathon to holding still against
forces. It is used to calculate **Endurance** value.

Social
------

### Charisma

**Force**

Charisma is a measure of how a character can outwardly express
themselves to others through *active* communication. It is used for
actions such as **Influence Intimacy** and **Perform Task**.

### Insight

**Finesse**

Insight is a measure of how a character can understand others by
observing their actions, words, and expressions. A character with high
Insight would be able to correctly guess and understand another's
motivation to predict their next actions. It is used for actions such as
**Read Intentions** and **Discover Intimacy.**

### Composure

**Resilience**

Composure is a measure of how a character communicates through *passive*
communication. This controls how a person uses their body language, and
how they can hide their true intentions through masks of reaction or
non-reaction. It is used to calculate **Guile.**

Mental
------

### Intelligence

**Force**

Intelligence is a measure of how a character can think logically,
organize thoughts, absorb information, and connect together disparate
pieces of information.

### Cunning

**Finesse**

Cunning is a measure of intuition, common sense, and fast-thinking.

### Will

**Resilience**

Will is the mental fortitude of a character, their ability to endure
hard times, and power through and complete their own ideas and thoughts.
It is used to calculate **Resolve.**

Abilities
=========

Abilities are skills that have been honed, trained, and developed
through education and experience. Abilities may range from Zero (0) to
Five (5).

There are two types of abilities: **Natural, and Supernatural.** Natural
Abilities are those that any mortal (and thus Exalt) has the capacity to
learn, improve, and perform upon. Characters may always roll with a
**Natural** **Ability,** even if they have Rating Zero (0) in it.

**Supernatural Abilities** are those that only may be accessed by
dealing with the supernatural aspects of the world. Sorcery, Necromancy,
Shapeshifting, and control of Fire are all examples.

Specialities
------------

Abilities are broad fields of human accomplishment and skill. For an
Exalt, the variance in competence across these subsets of the Ability is
generally so small it does not affect the dice roll.

However, there are a small number of smaller skills that the Exalt
*excels* at. These are called *Specialities.*

When Rolling in an Ability Speciality, roll with an additional dice
(+1).

Specialities do **not** affect Static Values.

Natural Abilities
-----------------

### Archery

Mastery of ranged weapons that propel projectiles. The bow and arrow is
the dominant form, but other examples range from the mechanical
crossbow, to slings, to even the exotic flampiece that shoots streamers
of fire.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Bow

-   Crossbow

-   Flamepiece

-   Slings

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Ammunition</strong></p>
<p><em>Exalted</em> does not require the Player to keep track of their character’s ammunition. It is simply assumed that the character has crafted or procured enough ammunition to perform their actions.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Athletics

Athletics is a measure of *physical motion.* It is useful for all ranges
of activity, both prolonged marathons and quick sprints.

Athletics is used to calculate the Static Values **Evasion** and
**Endurance.**

#### Sample Specialites

-   Running

-   Climbing

-   Swimming

### Awareness

Awareness is a measure of alertness and impromptu understanding of
events through any and all of the senses. Characters with high Awareness
are in tune-consciously or subconsciously-of everything that happens
around them.

#### Sample Specialites

Specialities in Awareness are location dependent, reflecting what sort
of background the character grew up in. Those born out in the wilderness
would find themselves overwhelmed by the large crowds in a city, for
example.

-   Wilderness

-   Cities

-   Political Gatherings

### Brawl

Mastery of form that uses the body itself as a natural weapon. Punches,
kicks, grapples, and leg sweeps are but a fraction of the endless ways
generations have devised ways of harming each other.

Brawl is *generally* performed Unarmed, but weapons that strengthen or
reinforce the natural body form--such as brass knuckles, tiger claws, or
even spike-tipped boots--are still part of the Brawling Ability.

#### Sample Specialites

1.  Punching

    > Kicking

    > Grappling/Restraints

### Craft

Craft is used to produce, analyze, and repair physical constructs and
moving parts. A crafter knows how to take even raw discard material and
turn it into a wondrous, complicated machine intended for a variety of
mechanical purposes, from fending off attacks to plowing a field.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Carpentry

-   Jerry-Rigging

-   Blacksmithing

-   Stoneworking

-   Clothworking

### Deception

Deception is the art of lying, trickery, and manipulation. Its masters
are adept at getting people to do what they want without them even
realizing an outside influence is even there. Deception is used to
calculate **Guile**.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Forgery

-   Sleight of Hand

-   Conceal evidence

### Integrity

Integrity is a measure of how tightly a character can keep to their
convictions, goals, and objectives. It is used to calculate the Static
Value of **Resolve**.

Uniquely, Integrity does *not* have specialties. Rather, this is handled
through the **Intimacy** system.

### Leadership

Leadership covers the skills necessary to manage, inspire, and otherwise
command large groups of people to act as one unified whole.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Oratory

-   Organization

-   Tactics

### Lore

Lore is both the breadth and depth of understanding in the world,
ranging from geographic knowledge to religion and philosophy.

While Lore is the most broad application of knowledge, it is **not
exclusive.** All Abilities can attempt an (Int+Ability) roll to know
about their particular subject. Recognizing a famous swordsman, for
example, could both be an (Int + Melee) and (Int + Lore) roll.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Geography

-   History

-   Cryptography

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Non-Omniscient Scholar<br />
</strong>Having a high Lore does not confer <em>absolute truths</em> upon a character-rather it represents being well-versed in what is known--and often as much as what is unknown.</p>
<p>It is a fact that the Immaculate Order claims that Solars and Lunars are Anathema. It is a fact that many other societies claim. High lore will allow knowledge that these two facts exist, but not which one of them are right.</p>
<p>Storytellers should keep a character’s background (and speciality) in mind when revealing information to players--phrasing information through such natural biases.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Medicine

Medicine is the diagnosis and healing of the mind, body, and soul. Those
with high Medicine have an intense knowledge of the bone and muscle
structure, herbal remedies, as well as precise chakras.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Alchemy

-   Chi

-   Surgery

-   Medicinal Plants

### Melee

Mastery of close range combat that uses a weapon as their primary method
of felling their foe.

Over the millennia of human history, there have been countless styles
and forms of weapons made. Specialities therefore are *representative*
of how the weapon is used: A spear could be used as a Sword, Staff, or
Spear, for example.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Swords

-   Clubs

-   Staff

### Navigation

Navigation is the ability to traverse terrains--from land, to sea, to
jungle--and come out unscathed and on time. A trained Navigator will
know their hand at reigns, the stern of a ship, how to survive in a
city’s underworld, as well as be able to tell you which wild fruit is
poisonous or edible.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Ocean

-   Wilderness

-   Urban

-   Tracking (long term)

### Performance

Performance is the measure of not only how well a character is in the
technical nature of singing, dancing, or other such artistic expression,
but the ability to convey meaning and thoughts through those actions. A
skilled performer not only knows how to entertain their crowd, but also
knows how to incite that crowd into a frenzied riot should they desire.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Dance

-   Singing

-   Acting

-   Poetry/Linguistics

### Persuasion

Persuasive characters know how to talk and charm people with their
bright personality, ultimately with a goal in mind. It is used to both
extract as well as impart information and tasks.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Charm

-   Beguilement

-   Fast-Talking

### Physique

Physique is the measure of fortitude and wellbeing, strength and
hardiness: the ability to shrug off attacks, poisons, and any
debilitations of the body. As well, it is used for tests of endurance,
and for feats of Strength. Physique is used to calculate **Soak**, as
well as **Endurance**.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Lifting

-   Crushing

-   Resistance (poisons/toxins)

### Politics

Politics is the maneuvering and manipulation of groups of
ideological-similar people. M A character skilled in Politics will be
able to manipulate peoples according to their will.

Specialities in Politics focus on either the *type* of politics at work
(Bureaucracy, Small-town), or specific political parties. Generally
speaking, the larger and more powerful a Political Party, the more
necessary the specialization needs to be tailor-made for them.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Bureaucracy

-   Guild

-   Specific Political Party

-   Undercity

### Stealth

Stealth is the ability to avoid detection-through any sense. They know
how to carry their body, which ways shadows cast, as well as creating
disguises and blending into crowds.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Disguise

-   Crowds

-   Hiding

-   Pickpocketing

-   Shadowing

### Thrown

Thrown focuses on Ranged Combat where the entire (or vast majority) of
the weapon is hurled at the opponent, rather than projectiles.

#### Sample Specialites

-   Javelin (Spear, Atlatl, dart)

-   Bladed (knives, shuriken, kunai, dart, axes)

-   Simple (Sling, blowgun, boomerang)

-   Chakram

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

**Supernatural** **Abilities** are those that are beyond the reach of
even the most talented mortal. No amount of training or skill can induct
a mortal into an Supernatural Ability-only by special circumstances will
the domain of the Gods be opened to them-such as Exaltation. Even then,
it is often a limited selection.

For example, those chosen to be a Dragon-Blooded are opened up to the
Elemental Abilities of Fire, Water, Air, Earth, and Wood, but are
restricted from the Lunar’s Shapeshifting Ability.

A minimum of Rating One is required to perform any Supernatural Ability,
and it cannot be learned without a specific Merit or Exaltation.

Since Supernatural Abilities are so closely tied with an Exaltation,
Gods, or Creature of Power, they will be detailed in their respective
books.

### Sorcery

**\[\[Hey it’s sorcery! \]\]**

### Necromancy

**\[\[and I’m Necromancy! \]\]**

Creating New Abilities
----------------------

The provided Abilities are not considered comprehensive or exclusive
list-simply a selection that is expected to be most useful in the
*Exalted* setting. New Abilities may be made as needed or desired. For
example, a modern setting would ask for the abilities *Firearms* and
*Drive.*

Abilities do not need to be exclusive from each other, nor do their
descending Charms. It is perfectly acceptable to have two abilities that
overlap.

### Example: Drive

\[\[An example on how to create a *Broad* Ability\]

Social Influence
================

Intimacies
----------

All characters have various ideals, desires, and loved ones. An Intimacy
is a representation of their core being, who the person is--for better
or for worse.

An *Intimacy* is a step above a person’s natural likes and dislikes--it
is some aspect that defines them in some way.

Intimacies should be specific and close to your character’s definition
and goals:

-   “Hatred of the Realm’s Slavery Trade”

-   “Trust that inner enlightenment will bring about external good”

Intimacies are both a boon and a bane to characters--they have a
resistance to any social influence that runs contrary to that Intimacy
(+2 Resolve).

However, those same Intimacies may be used to pull the character into
increasingly difficult tasks. (+2 Dice).

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Assumed Intimacies</strong></p>
<p>There are common intimacies to all mortal kinds that don’t need to be explicitly written down, such as the Desire for Safety and Health, and the Fear of Death.</p>
<p>The list of Intimacies written for a character should only be written down if they are notable in their strength.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Unacceptable Influence

There are certain actions and requests that a character will refuse to
do, regardless of how convincing, persuasive, or manipulative an Exalt
is, **they will not do it.**

Unacceptable Influence protects those actions that the character
considered antithetical to their very nature, such as betraying loyal
causes, violating self preservation, or harming those dearly loved.

Players, as they know their characters much better than the Storyteller,
reserve the sole right to declare if Influence is *Unacceptable*--though
they should justify it to the rest of the group.

### Defining Intimacy

Some characters have an Intimacy so central to their character, that it
is considered their **Defining Intimacy**.

Characters cannot be made to work *against* their Defining Intimacy--it
is Unacceptable Influence.

However, they are much more susceptible to its influence. Any valid
attempt to leverage the **Defining Intimacy** will have a bonus to do
their task. (+4 Dice)

A character may have only **1** Defining Intimacy. Most characters do
not have a Defining Intimacy at all.

### Changing Intimacies

At the completion of every **Story,** both the Players and the
Storyteller should reevaluate their respective characters and readjust
Intimacies as appropriate to reflect what has happened in the Story.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Respect Your Group</strong></p>
<p>Throughout history people have committed horrific acts against each other--acts which still continue to this day. You may desire to show it as a proper challenge to overcome, to the levels that a character will sink to--even so called heroes. That said:</p>
<p><strong>No Person should ever feel uncomfortable at the table.<br />
</strong></p>
<p>At the end of the day, this is a game that you and your friends are playing in modern times, surrounded by modern schools of morality.</p>
<p>Any Player (including the Storyteller) should be allowed to raise their concerns about scenes, direction of story, or other such aspects of the game, and their concern should be respected without question. Move the theme aside and don’t bring it up again.</p>
<p>A good tool to <em>minimize</em> these concerns is to have a “Session 0”, where all Players discuss what themes they expect out of a game, and what to avoid. However, this should not be seen as a substitute for listening to your Players at the moment. Often, they will not know what bothered them until it comes up.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Social Actions
--------------

Social actions are dependent on how they are approached. Using an
inappropriate action for a desired outcome will not work (no roll
required) or at least have severe penalties applied.

For example, no matter how well you roll, you cannot threaten someone
into gaining a positive intimacy towards you.

While the **Social Category** Attributes are the majority fit for Social
Actions, they are not exclusive.

For example, Intimidation may be done with (Strength + Physique), or
bamboozlement with (Cunning + Deception). Finding creative
interpretations of the character’s strengths is perfectly valid!

### Groups

Social actions against groups of people, rather than individuals, suffer
from the lack of intimacy--in addition to the natural logistical issues.

Characters in groups of magnitude of “Crowd” or larger gain Resolve
according to their **Scale**. i.e. Crowd gains +2, Village +4, and City
+6.

A City is the largest Magnitude that a Social Action may naturally
address--and that in itself requires logistics such as a scaled tower,
or distributed writings.

### Perform Task

**(Roll) vs. Resolve**

The character attempts to get another to perform a task, and are
categorized into three tiers:

-   **Inconvenient task**  
    &gt; There is at most mild danger, opposition, or time devoted to
    this &gt; task. At most the task will take a few hours--maybe a day.

-   **Serious Task  
    &gt; **(+1 Resolve)  
    &gt; Must leverage an Intimacy to attempt.  
    &gt;  
    &gt; There may be lasting repercussions to performing the task,
    ranging &gt; from physical to social. The task may take days to
    weeks to &gt; complete.

<!-- -->

-   **Life-Changing** **Task  
    &gt; **(+2 Resolve)  
    &gt; Must leverage a Defining Intimacy to attempt.  
    &gt;  
    &gt; Their lives may be permanently altered by the task, running
    even &gt; the risk of death. Even embarking on the task will have
    serious &gt; consequences.

### Influence Intimacy

**(Roll) vs. Resolve**

The character leverages an *existing* Intimacy to either suppress a
different Intimacy, install a New Intimacy, or raise an existing
Intimacy into a Defining Intimacy.

Intimacy changes made this way are temporary, eventually fading away
after a day without reinforcement.

This action cannot decrease a permanent **Defining** **Intimacy**.

#### Emotion

Instead of a particular Intimacy, the character may choose to suppress
or enflame an *emotion*. This may have unpredictable effects

This may be useful when targeting a disparate crowd, or if specific
intimacies are not known.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Players on the Defensive</strong></p>
<p>The Player Characters are the main characters of the story, not NPCs.</p>
<p>When on the defensive from Social Actions, the Player still controls how the character acts in response to the roll, not the Storyteller. This is especially relevant for the “Perform Task” Action--the Player is free to interpret how and when they perform this task.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Read Intentions

**(Insight + Ability) vs. Guile  
**Reading Intentions is a **Reflexive** Action.

When a character desires to understand another, they may attempt to read
the Intentions based on their actions.

On a successful roll against the target’s Guile, the Player may ask a
question to the Storyteller about the target, ranging from: “Who are
they,” “What are they here (in the scene) for?” “Where are they going?”
“Do they intend me harm?”

The Storyteller is obligated to respond *truthfully* to the chosen
question, though it may be cryptic.

Only one Read Intentions maneuver (per target) may be made due to the
target’s actions. All Players may attempt the roll, but only the
highest-roll gets to ask the questions.

### Probe Intimacy

**(Roll) vs. Guile**

Intimacies, emotions, and other aspects of a character may be pressed by
the Player, forcing it to be revealed.

The Player, through their action, will state what behaviors they are
trying to induce or analyze with their action. If successful, the
Storyteller will need to tell them the closest relevant Intimacy there
is to the action --or the decided lack of one.

This may be used in an Encounter to probe for the nature of a Key Issue.

Encounters
==========

From the intricate dance of ballroom politics, to battlefield war bands,
to the high-drama of a courtroom, an Exalt’s life will be filled with
scenes of great importance where the fate of the world hinges on
well-spoken speeches or careful deliberation.

Goal
----

An Encounter starts with a **Goal** for the scene: what the Players
intend the outcome of the scene to be. If there is no clearly defined
goal, or that goal is unreachable, an Encounter should not start.

> *On the southern shores of the Inland Sea party decides that they will
> need a full caravan to traverse the Burning Sands.. There is a local
> Trade-Prince whom they think they can convince to finance and supply
> them this caravan.*

Key Issues
----------

Once the stated Goal of the Encounter has been established, the
Storyteller should come up with 2-4 **Key Issues** that will need to be
overcome to accomplish this goal, and how much **Influence** is required
to overcome the Key Issues.

Key Issues range the gamut from personal ideology to political
entanglements to logistics. So long as it is something that prevents the
party from moving forward, and is (relatively) self-contained, it may be
a valid Key Issue.

Once the Storyteller has come up with the Key Issues, they will need to
tell the Players the *number* of Issues at play. The *nature* of the
Issue may be revealed at their discretion.

#### Influence Requirement

-   Simple 5 Influence

-   Average 10 Influence

-   Complicated 15 Influence

> *The Storyteller decides there are 3 Key Issues preventing the
> Trade-Prince from funding the caravan:*
>
> *1. Needing a return on investment. (Simple). Understandably, the
> Trade-Prince will need to be convinced it is worth his while to
> dedicate so many resources to this goal. This Key Issue can be easily
> guessed, so is revealed on Encounter start.*
>
> *2. Antagonistic Sycophants (Simple). The Trade-Prince has surrounded
> himself with sycophants, who deeply despise any perceived change to
> their position. The Party must silence their influence.*
>
> *3. Fear of the Immaculate Order (Average) (Hidden). Through the
> party’s past actions, the Trade-Prince has secretly caught on that
> they are Anathema. He does not personally care, but he will need a way
> to make sure that the Immaculate Order will not find out about this
> deal--or at least be convinced of this fact.*

### Gathering Influence

There are a thousand ways to approach the scene and its Key Issues:
starting rumors, researching tactics, beguiling tricks, intimidation.

Taking any action to tackle a Key Issue directly is called a **Gather
Influence** action.

A Gathering Influence action operates just as any normal action--first
the Storyteller must decide if the Action *is possible* in the given
context, and then assigns the Difficulty of the roll.

If the roll is not appropriate, the Storyteller should inform the Player
before they take up the action.)

What is different is that all Threshold Successes of the roll become
converted into Influence--in addition to the normal outcome of the
action. These Influence Points are then applied against the *specific*
Key Issue being addressed.

**Influence** = Successes - Difficulty

> *The Socialite of the group, a Solar Eclipse, moves to address the
> “Antagonist Sycophants” Key Issue by suppressing the Intimacy the
> Trade-Prince has of them. He performs a “Influence Intimacy” Social
> Action, rolling 5 Success against the Prince’s 3 Resolve. He gains 2
> Influence Points against the Key Issue, as well as successfully
> lowering the Prince’s Intimacy.*

Once enough Influence has been gathered against a Key Issue, it is
considered *resolved*, and the Players are one step closer to their
Goal.

Overflow Influence is allowed, and can help secure the safety of a
contested Key Issue.

#### Examples

-   Impassioned speech

-   Delving into research

-   Sweet-Talking

-   Intimidation of Sycophants

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Not Everything is a Gathering Influence Action<br />
</strong>There are plenty of actions that are helpful, useful, and actionable in the scene--but they aren’t Gathering Influence Actions. For example: Discovering Intimacies.</p>
<p>The general rule of thumb for rulings is “Does this directly, singularly address the Key Issue.” If not, it is not a Gathering Influence Action.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Exhausting Supply

The Storyteller may choose to “exhaust” a source of influence, meaning
that further Gathering Influence Rolls cannot be done on this source.
After all, there is only so much you can intimidate bystanders to do in
one Scene.

This limitation should be clearly expressed to the Players so that they
may take this factor into account--either by changing their approach, or
finding new sources of Influence for the scene.

### Hidden Key Issues

The Storyteller should try to give hints and paths toward discovering
the nature of Hidden Issues.

Players, in turn, may use an action similar to “Probe Intimacy” to
divine the nature of the Hidden Issue, with the same rules and
effects--the Player summarizes a list of actions, events, or behaviors,
and then attempts to divine what the Key Issue behind them is.

As well, it is perfectly possible for Players to gather Influence over a
Key Issue they do not fully understand.

A Player Intentionally “going in blind” is taking a risk--if their
assumption is wrong on the Issue, they do not gain any Influence Points
for their roll, no matter how many Threshold Successes they roll.

> *The Players have managed to completely avoid uncovering the nature of
> the Third Key Issue. So far, the Storyteller has dropped hints that
> the Trade Prince may know of their true nature in their conversations,
> and has even told them that intimidating a particular Sycophant (with
> deep ties to the Immaculate Order) could be applied to the hidden Key
> Issue, if they wanted.*
>
> *One Player now decides to use the "Probe for Key Issue," trying to
> divine the relationship between the Sycophant and the Trade Prince.
> They succeed on their roll, and the Storyteller responds by noting
> that the Trade Prince "Fears what that man represents," and notes that
> the man has signs of the Immaculate Order woven into his clothes.*

### Altering/Adding Goals

During the Encounter, the Players may decide they want to alter the
ultimate goal--perhaps they have decided to push further, or have found
an alternate goal they prefer.

In both cases, the Storyteller should add an additional Key Issue to
encapsulate this difference. They may decide to drop an existing Key
Issue if the altered goal no longer applies.

Flow
----

An Encounter is not like a Combat Scene--the timing is fluid, and
actions do not follow a set order, depending primarily on the natural
flow of the narrative.

However, a “Round” is still defined: each character has one and only one
Full Action (Primary + Secondary) in a round.

The Storyteller should make sure that all Players know they have the
*option* to act each Round.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Balancing Antagonist Actions<br />
</strong>The Storyteller is allowed to increase the number of actions Antagonists can take per Round, if necessary. (The number of Player Characters is large, the number of Antagonists small, etc.)</p>
<p>The Rule of Thumb is that the number of Antagonist Actions should be around 1 for every 2 Player Character Actions.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Antagonist Goals
----------------

Antagonists are operating on their own goal during the scene, and have
their own Key Issues that they must Gather Influence upon.

Typically, the Antagonist’s Goal and Goals and Key Issues are directly
related to the Party's--whether in direct opposition, or competing to
get there first. For convenience sake, these are referred to as the "the
same" Key Issue.

However, antagonists having the same Key Issue is not a
*requirement*--they may be working on a seperate Goal for the scene, and
they have tangential or completely unrelated Key Issues. Typically,
these start out as Hidden to the Party.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="text-align: left;"><strong>Abstract Antagonists<br />
</strong>It is easy to recognize an antagonist when it is an individual. However, Antagonists can be anything--from mobs of people to an avalanche to Time itself closing off a Key Issue.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Sabotaging Influence

The Antagonist and Party's Influence tracks are independent of each
other--only a dedicated **Sabotage Influence** Action allows one side to
disturb the other's Influence.

This action is nearly identical to a Gather Influence action, save that
the Threshold Successes of the action are *taken away* from the opposing
party's influence over the Key Issue.

The Character is not allowed to split the effect of Influence: it is
either fully a Gathering Actionor a Sabotage Action.

### Key Issue Control

Once one side or another has reached the Influence Requirement of a Key
Issue, they have *control* over the issue.

Control may be taken away if a different side gains more Influence than
the previous owner, either by decreasing it through sabotage or
reinforcing their own claim..

If a side manages to keep control over a Key Issue for a full Round, it
becomes *locked* and can no longer be challenged.

Encounter End
-------------

The Encounter ends the same Round that all Key Issues become
*controlled*--though they do not need to be under control all by the
same *side.*

If a Goal's Key Issues are completely controlled by one side--they will
achieve their Goal.

A Goal with split Key Issue control will find they have a *partial*
victory--they do not get the full Goal they wanted, but they do not get
nothing at all.

When weighing a Partial Victory, the Storyteller should lean heavily
into the uncontrolled Key Issues--why will this bring trouble to them?
Perhaps they get what they want, but only at a certain cost?

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Final Argument<br />
</strong>Typically, the Encounter is wrapped up with a <em>Final Argument</em>, where a chosen Player Character summarizes what has happened in the Encounter, rolling it together and pointedly delivering as a capstone.</p>
<p>This Final Argument cannot change the result of the Key Issues, but a well-delivered Final Argument can transition to the next course of action.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Combat
======

\[\[Nice Header about combat being inevitable in the life of an
Exalt.\]\]

Endurance
---------

Endurance is a value measuring how much fight a character has left in
them. Once a character’s Endurance Pool has been exhausted, either
through pain, disheartenment, or whatever means are employed, the
character is considered out of the battle.

### Defeat

Characters who are knocked out of battle are typically not dead--they
are simply at the mercy of the opposing characters.

Non-recurring antagonistic characters' fates should be left to the
players. Depending on the narrative type of damage (slashing, stabbing,
etc.) these minor characters may perish without aid.

#### Player Character Defeat

For defeated Player Characters, this often will mean that their
antagonist will successfully accomplish their plans, gloat about it, and
then introduce a **Major Complication** into the player’s lives.

#### Recurring Antagonist Defeat

If they are intended to be a recurring antagonist, they should always
manage to get away, though suffering a major blow to their own
plans--they will often be forced to retreat and lick their wounds.

If you force a retreat on these Antagonists, you must bribe your players
each with a [**<u>Strife Point</u>**](#_qlg0g56pfcyu) as compensation.

Remember, though, that recurring antagonists can only be used so many
times--eventually you will have to move to the Final Confrontation,
where the fate of these antagonists should be placed into the Players’
hands.

#### Death and Dying

The death of any central characters to the story should be pivotal and
moving to the story. Player Characters will only die on defeat if it is
something the Player wishes for their character.

A dramatic moment of death is a perfect send-off and ending for one of
the members of the Exalted.

Likewise, central Non-Player Character deaths should be determined by
the Storyteller, although they must bribe all the Players with a
**Strife Point** to avoid such a fate--something that the Players are
allowed to reject should they so choose.

Impulse
-------

Impulse is a representation of a character’s general tactical advantage,
which they may use at any moment to press attacks, or perform more
complex martial Arts Techniques and Charms.

A character cannot have more than **15 Impulse** at a time.

Impulse can be gathered through two means:

### Claim Advantage

**Primary Action**

The character actively tries to sway the battlefield in their favor
through such acts as feints, insults, or studying the battlefield. The
Player takes a standard Action Roll based on their action, and then
receives the Number of Successes as Impulse.

**Sample Actions**

-   **Feinting attack** (Dex + Melee)

-   **Analyze Battlefield** (Int + Awareness)

-   **Intimidate** (Str + Physique)

### Recover

**Secondary Action  
Gain (Essence) Impulse, or (Essence)x2 Peripheral Motes, or a
combination of the two.**

The character catches their breath between moments in combat,
stabilizing themselves and quickly scanning the battlefield for an
opening. The Player immediately giants ( **Essence**) Impulse, (Essence)
x2 Peripheral Motes, or a divided combination of the two.

Static Defense
--------------

Characters use a Static **Defense Value (DV)** to defend against all
attacks made. By default, this is the greater of **Evasion** or
**Soak.**

Defense mitigates attacks, reducing the incoming damage by the
characters DV. An attack that reduces the incoming attack damage to Zero
(0) is considered a **Miss**.

### Armor

Armor grants a **Soak Bonus** protection to a character, but at the cost
of a **Evasion Penalty**.

All armor is of three categories: Light, Medium, and Heavy. Martial Arts
Styles will often dictate and restrict what level of armor can be worn.

### Bypassing Defenses

There are attacks that can bypass certain defenses, which then must rely
on other defenses instead of pure DV. The Prime examples of these are
**Undodgeable** and **Unsoakable** attacks.

**Undodgeable** attacks bypass Evasion. Examples would be room-filling
explosions and damage from gravity.

**Unsoakable** attacks bypass Soak Examples would be piercing damage,
and attacks that manage to get under armor.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>There’s Always a Defense<br />
</strong>There is no such thing as a Perfect Attack--there is always some sort of flaw or counter to an attack, even if the damage can’t be mitigated through DV. This must be taken into account when creating your own custom Powers.</p>
<p>Environmental Damage, such as Fire, is both Undodgeable and Unsoakable when applied. However, it is tied to specific parts of the environment--simply moving outside of the burning building will counter this source of damage.</p>
<p>Even mighty Sorcerous Spells have a great disadvantage: the slow and obvious buildup to the attack beforehand.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Situational Defense
-------------------

There are two levels of Situational Defenses in Exalted: **Partial** and
**Full**.

**Partial** means that the Attacking Player has a -3
Disadvantage--effectively increasing the defending Player’s DV by 3.

**Full** means that they cannot be attacked by mortal means.

Situational Defenses often can be countered by natural means: characters
can move across the battlefield, or scale a wall.

**Situational Defenses do not stack.** It is either Partial, or Full.
However, multiple defenses must often be addressed individually. If a
character is hiding behind a wall (Full) as well as at a distance
(Partial), if the wall is destroyed by an action, the Range Defense
would still apply.

### Cover

Characters may use the terrain to gain Situational Defenses, such as by
ducking against rubble or hiding behind a wall. Taking Cover is not an
assumed action: it is a specific **Secondary Action** that characters
may take.

Cover is considered **Partial** when at least half a character’s body is
blocked by a material that can withstand weapon blows--such as a
chest-high wall of broken stone rubble.

Cover is considered **Full** when the character’s entire body is
blocked, such as behind a wall.

Typically, cover works both ways: a character in Full Defense from
attacks is also blocked from attacking others for the same reason.

### Range

Range is the most prevalent and common source of Situational Defense, so
much so that it has special rules.

#### Range Bands

Characters are constantly in motion during combat, running down
alleyways and leaping off tree limbs. Rather than rely on absolute
positioning, Exalted works off of *relative* positioning between
characters, divided into specific **Range Bands**.

Characters are assumed to keep in their same relative Range Band until
one side makes a deliberate effort to change it through a **Move
Action**.

Move Actions may also change relative range bands to other characters.
If moving towards a character in a group, all characters in that group
would be one range band closer. This secondary effect is dependent on
the Storyteller’s judgement.

There are Eight Range bands, split along Five Categories: **1x Close, 1x
Short, 2x Medium, 3x Long,** and **1x Far.**

> **Close**
>
> Within arm’s reach.
>
> **Short**
>
> Within a few yards of each other--a distance able to be crossed within
> a quick sprint.
>
> **Medium**
>
> Far enough that conversations would have to be shouted, and an archer
> would have to take preparations for a proper attack.
>
> **Long**
>
> Across an entire field, far enough away that visual, rather than
> verbal, signals would have to be used.
>
> **Far**
>
> Term for “outside of the battlefield”. Characters cannot get *to* the
> Far Range band through Move actions, but any late-comers to the battle
> will show up at this Range Band.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Alternate Rules:<br />
Battlemaps and Absolute Positioning</strong></p>
<p>While relative Range Bands are the recommended method of playing Exalted, some players prefer to play with absolute positioning and battlemaps. If that is your preference, make the following changes:</p>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>Distance will be measured in meters. Typically, hexagonal space &gt; (hex) will represent 5 meters.</p></li>
<li><p>Characters have a <strong>Speed</strong> Static value, which is 3 + (Dex + &gt; Athletics )/2.<br />
&gt; The distance travelled is Speed x5 meters--or (Speed) Hexes &gt; at a time.</p></li>
<li><p>Whenever the Move Action is taken, the character moves (Speed) &gt; hex.</p>
<ol type="a">
<li>A Dash moves (Speed)x2.</li>
</ol></li>
<li><p>A character may move 5 meters (1 hex) on their action without &gt; taking a Move Action.</p></li>
<li><p>All references to (Range Band) as a distance is 25 meters (5 &gt; hexes).</p></li>
</ol>
<p>The definition for range bands are altered:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>0-5 meters (0-1 hex): <strong>Close</strong></p></li>
<li><p>6-20 meters (2-5 hex): <strong>Short</strong></p></li>
<li><p>21-70 meters (6-15 hex): <strong>Medium</strong></p></li>
<li><p>71-145 meters (16-30 hex): <strong>Long</strong></p></li>
<li><p>146+ meters (31 hex): <strong>Far</strong></p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Close Attacks

**Close Attacks**, such as those made with **Melee** and **Brawl**, may
be made at Close Range with no defense applied, and at Close Range with
Partial Defense. Any further ranges enjoy a Full Defense.

-   **Close**: None (0)

-   **Short**: Partial (-3)

-   **Medium+**: Full (N/A)

Attacking a Short range (or further, with the right Powers) does not
change the relative range band. It is assumed that the character rushes
in, attacks, and then cannot hold the position for more than an instant.

#### Ranged Attacks

**Ranged Attacks,** such as those made with **Archery** and **Thrown**
are made at Short Range with no defense. At Medium they suffer a Partial
Defense, whereas Long+ cannot be attacked at all.

**Ranged** attacks may take an **Aim** action to eliminate Range Partial
Defense of Medium+ attacks.

At **Close** range, ranged attacks are hampered by the control the
opponent has claimed over the area, and so also suffer a Partial
Defense. However, this defense *cannot* be countered with an **Aim**
action.

-   **Close**: Partial (-3)  
    &gt; Cannot use Aim action to counter.

-   **Short**: None (0)

-   **Medium:** Partial (-3)

-   **Long+:** Full (N/A)

Attacks and Damage
------------------

A standard attack is equal to the number of Successes from **Attack
Roll**, plus the character’s **Base Damage**. The total damage dealt is
the difference between that number and the target’s **DV**, and is
subtracted from the target’s Endurance.

**Attack Power = \[Attack Roll\] + Base Damage**

All Powers and modifiers applied to an attack must be declared in use
*before* the attack roll is made, unless specifically detailed
otherwise.

The Attack Power must then be finalized. Only then will the Defense
Powers be declared and activated. No additional attack modifiers may be
made at this point.

**Damage = Attack Power - DV**

#### Miss

A **Miss** will occur when either the Attack Roll as 0 Successes, or if
the total calculated damage is 0 or less after DV. A Miss does no damage
to the target.

### Attack Roll

The standard attack’s Dice Pool depends greatly on the weapon that is
used during the attack. The Ability depends on how they are using a
weapon--a sword will typically be used with the Melee ability, but may
be used with the Thrown if it is used as a javelin.

The Martial Art Style that a character will use will restrict what types
and weights of a weapon may be used.

**Attack Roll** = (Attribute + Ability) + Accuracy

#### Attack Attribute

**Light** weapons depend on the nimble motions and precise placements of
attacks for the most effect in their attack, and so rely on
**Dexterity** as their Attribute to calculate an attack.

**Heavy** Weapons depend mostly on pure force, forgoing any sense of
precision. They thus use **Strength** as their Attribute.

**Medium** and **Unarmed** Weapons can be used with finesse or force,
and so use the greater of Dexterity or Strength.

### Base Damage

Base Damage is how much damage an attack will do, regardless of chance.

Flow
----

A Combat Scene starts with a **Join Battle** Roll, which is 1d10 +
**Initiative**. The order is from highest to lowest.

All characters start with **5 Impulse**

During their turn, a character may take One (1) **Primary Action**, and
One (1) **Secondary Action**.

After all characters have taken their action, the order starts from the
top and a new **Round** starts.

Combat ends when it has become clear which side is the victor, in which
all but one side of the conflict has lost all of their endurance. Play
will then enter into the next scene, which is often a recuperation and
consequences scene from combat.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Calling a Fight<br />
</strong>There will come times when the results have become clear, even if one side or the other has not exhausted their Endurance. This could be simply characters “mopping up” characters that cannot harm them, a protracted fight, or even a stalemate. There is no need to continue a Combat Scene in these cases.</p>
<p>Once the result is known, simply exit out into narrative space to describe how the combat finishes.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Primary Actions
---------------

### Standard Attack

**Impulse Cost**: 0 + (X)

Attack a single valid target.

The character may choose to *Push the Attack*, increasing their Base
Damage by 1 for every 2 Impulse spent. This may be declared *after* the
attack roll is made, but *before* the attack is finalized.

### Flurry Attack

**Impulse Cost**: 1 per target

Make a Flurry Attack against multiple, but different, valid targets,
spending 1 Impulse per target selected.

A Flurry attack does *not* use Base Damage: only the rolled dice is the
Attack Power.

**Attack Power = \[Attack Roll\]**

The attack roll is made once, and then applied to each target’s DV
individually.

### Claim Advantage

**Impulse Cost:** --

Take an Action Roll action on the battlefield to gain advantage. This
can be a feinting attack, studying the battlefield, or distracting
enemies with a song.

The number of successes on the action results in the number of Impulse
gained.

### Distract/Stun/Disadvantage

**Impulse Cost:** 2

Take an \[Att + Abi\] Roll against the target’s Resolve in an attempt to
distract, stun, or otherwise Disadvantage the target. The target then
loses (Threshold Successes) of Impulse.

The Action Roll may be things such as:

-   Intimidation (Strength + Physique)

-   Tactical Routing (Intelligence + Leadership)

-   Distracting Song (Charisma + Performance)

### Grapple

**Impulse Cost:** 2

Make an (Dex + Brawl) against a target’s **Evasion** in Close Range. For
1 Action, and an additional action per ½ Threshold Success, the target
becomes grappled.

While grappled, the target cannot take a voluntary **Move** Action. As
well *neither characters* may perform Flurries or use any weapon that
requires both hands.

When the controlling character takes a **Move** action, they must make a
contested (Str + Physique) roll against the clinched target. On a
success, both characters move a range band.

#### Size and Grappling

This action gains +2 Automatic Success for each size category larger
than the target the attacker is, or -2 Automatic Failure for each size
smaller. I.e. A Medium character grappling a small character would gain
+2, while a small character grappling a Large would suffer -4.

Characters grappling targets at least 2 sizes larger than them cannot
**Move** the target, and are often characterized as only restraining a
certain limb.

Secondary Actions
-----------------

### Recover

**Impulse Cost**: --

Gain either 2 + (Essence) Impulse, (2 + (Essence))x2 Peripheral Motes,
or a split combination of the two.

### Move

**Impulse Cost:** 0 (+1, -1DV)

Change relative position to a target character by one Range Band, either
closer or further, terrain permitting.

At the cost of +1 Impulse, and -1 DV until the next character’s action,
the character can *Rush* to move two Range Bands. This cannot be done
two rounds in a row.

### Aim

**Impulse Cost:** 1

Counter the Range Partial Defense of an attack made at Medium + range.

### Change Initiative

**Impulse Cost:** 1 per +1 Initiative, (0 for dropping)

Move up 1 Initiative for every 1 Impulse spent, which takes effect at
the start of the round.

Alternatively, the character may drop down any number of Initiative at
no cost, applied immediately.

### Dive for Cover

**Impulse Cost:** 2

Take Cover, gaining either Partial or Full Defense depending on the
terrain.

### Defend Other

**Impulse Cost:** 1 per target.

Until your next action, you protect the target(s), using your Soak value
(if it is higher).

The target(s) must be within Short Range of your character to take this
advantage.

Environmental Effects
---------------------

\[\[**Todo: I need to flesh out the following:\]\]**

-   Fire

-   Unsteady terrain

-   Winds and other projectile suppressing tactics.

    -   Counted as some sort of Situational Defense.

Ambush Round
------------

If one side of a combat is prepared, and catches the other off guard,
this starts combat with an **Ambush Round**. Player Character should
always get a chance to counter this ambush with a (Cunning + Awareness)
Roll.

The Ambushed characters:

-   Do not act until after the non-ambushed characters.

-   Suffer -2 DV until their action.

-   May only take a Primary *or* Secondary Action on their
    round--as &gt; they are readying their weapons.

Ambushes are premeditated affairs--requiring setup, planning, and
coordination between the party. Players cannot suddenly go into combat
if things are not going their way and declare it an Ambush.

Projects
========

From waging a campaign to spreading a mercantile Guild to infiltrating
and converting a spy network, to building a grand Manse, sometimes the
Exalted want to do long-reaching, large-scale endeavors that are best
handled through a broad-stroking brush.

All characters can perform projects, and the nature of the project is
informed by their abilities. Social characters interact with masses of
people to form networks; martial characters can train and inform troops;
crafter characters can create tools, manses, artifacts.

Resources
---------

Projects require a certain number of **Resources (RES)** to complete.
This resource is a generalized representation of everything from labor,
physical materials, knowledge, and the like that can be applied to the
Project. Once applied to the project, RES is permanently consumed--while
the labor force may still be there, perhaps payment toward them ran dry,
or they can no longer delay tending to their crops.

Much like XP, The Storyteller should periodically award RES to the
players. However, unlike XP, RES should be more based on events within
the campaign, such as recovering materials from a lost manse, gaining
the workforce of a thankful village, etc.

### Keystone Resource

Larger and more ambitious projects will require certain Keystone to
complete. This can range from needing a General to command an army to
requiring a significant amount of *magical materials,* such as
Orichalcum or Moonsilver.

Keystone Resources are things that Players must *seek out*, which may
spawn scenes, or even an entire Story!

### Converting Resources

Due to the generalized nature of Projects, the source of RES does not
always match the application of them. It is simply assumed as part of
the Project that RES is converted into the most applicable asset, based
on a series of complicated trades and "off-screen" character activities:
recovered gems could grease the eye of a noble, allowing for backroom
deals that allow military training of civilians, for example. In
general, this is all *assumed* to have happened, and does not need
attention drawn to it.

In essence: RES is universally transitive.

One caveat is that the completion of a Project must be *possible*, given
the time and circumstances of the characters. A militia cannot suddenly
appear in the middle of the abandoned wilds simply because the player
finally got enough RES after this session.

### Pooling Resources

Players may freely transfer and give RES to other characters, should
they so choose.

The Right Tool for the Job
--------------------------

\[\[You need to choose an ability you are working off of.

The project you are undertaking must be justified in what you are doing.
You are socializing to make a spy network, crafting to outfit an army,
doing a sorcerous working to raise manses.

Anything that doesn’t match can’t be done.\]\]

### Gaining/Improving Merits

**Projects** can be a way for characters to gain or improve Merits. For
example, the character might decide to recruit *Followers*, establish a
network of *Contacts*, or make an *Artifact*.

Common Sense, and the Storyteller's approval, should be applied when
gaining or improving a merit. People generally don't simply just grow
*Extra Limbs* out of the blue...unless they are in the deepest recesses
of the Wyld.

If a character is *improving* a Merit to a higher rating, they pay the
*difference* in RES, Keystones, and time between the ratings. For
example, improving *Contacts* from Rating 1 to Rating 2 would be the
difference between a Minor and Basic Project: 4 RES and 6 days.

Obstruction Rolls
-----------------

All projects, save Basic Projects, will have at least one Obstruction
Roll. These are events that pop up during the Project that can
potentially derail, complicate, or even aid in the project.

If a Project requires multiple Obstruction rolls, it should be spaced
out roughly evenly across the lifespan of the project.

For each Obstruction Roll, the player should roll a single d10:

|           |                                                                                                      |
|:----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Roll 1d10 |                                                                                                      |
|           | **Result**                                                                                           |
| 10        | **Critical Success:** Everything has seemingly clicked into place, providing an extra benefit.       |
| 7-9       | Everything is proceeding exactly as planned.                                                         |
| 4-6       | An **Oddity** has developed and the Exalt's direct attention is requested.                           |
| 2-3       | **Problem:** Something of great import has happened, and requires your direct attention              |
| 1         | **Major Problem**: The project is in *dire straits*, and will collapse if not attended to right now! |

### Critical Success

\[\[ Examples of extra benefits that can happen\]\]

### Oddities

Oddities are events that, while unexpected, are not directly harmful to
the completion of the project. They could potentially be a boon, even,
but require direct attention of the Exalt to resolve.

-   Beastmen have heard of your militia, and wish to join. Current &gt;
    members are uneasy and do not wish them to without your input.

-   Your cult desires a clarification on one of your rules:
    currently &gt; one of the members is in violation of the technical
    aspects of the &gt; law, but not the spirit.

-   The magical materials to create your artifact were slightly
    flawed, &gt; leading to a variance in essence flow. It might lead to
    a new and &gt; unintended strange power.

### Problems

Problems, if not dealt with, will set back the Project.

-   A spy has not returned on time. You know they are not simply late.

-   Loss of a minor cache of resources. A spirit has started to
    disrupt &gt; the village.

-   An explosion rocked your campsite.

-   Supply lines are being disrupted.

-   Rumors of the Wyld hunt are near your border, but are unproven.

### Major Problem

A Major Problem will derail the entire project if not dealt with.

-   Your workers have split into two different groups, on the brink of
    a &gt; civil war.

-   There seems to be an element inside your organization actively
    and &gt; effectively disrupting your society.

-   One of the magical materials was corrupted with Vitriol, and
    has &gt; started to speak the demon-tongue of Malfeas.

Resolving Obstructions
----------------------

Oddities and Problems can usually be handled with a short scene with the
Player explaining how the character handles the situation.

Major Problems, on the other hand, usually take at least a full scene,
and potentially an entire session to resolve.

Cost
----

The total **Cost** of a Project is equivalent to the Base cost,
multiplied by the sum of any opposition.

You must have a base score in the related Ability to start a Project.

<table style="width:97%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 19%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td><strong>Scale</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Base Cost</strong></td>
<td><p><strong>Ob struction</strong></p>
<p><strong>Rolls</strong></p></td>
<td><strong>Required Ability Score</strong></td>
<td>Merit Rating</td>
<td>Affects Population</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>1</td>
<td>0</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Hamlet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>2</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>Village</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>5</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>Town</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>10</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>City</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>20 (1Key)</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>Prefecture</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>50 (2Key)</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>Province</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Opposing Modifiers**

When making a change on the world, sometimes the world pushes back.
Modifiers will increase the Base Project Resource cost of the Project.
(But not change the Keystone cost or the number of Obstruction Rolls)

**x2 - Significant**

-   Results in a minor, but permanent supernatural force.

    -   Crafting a well that supernaturally purifies water and is
        never &gt; empty.

<!-- -->

-   Change is *directly* opposed by powerful entities, ranging from &gt;
    mortal nations to other Exalted.

    -   Getting a Spy network loyal to a Solar costs more in the
        Realm &gt; than it does the Hundred Kingdoms.

**x4**

-   Results in a permanent, significant supernatural force.

    -   Something that will constantly mutate those it interacts with.

-   Opposed by powerful forces, such as the Deep Wyld, Gods, or a &gt;
    High-Level Exalted.

Example Projects:

-   Arming Militia

-   Repairing a burned down village

-   Establishing a spy network

-   Repairing a manse

-   Establishing trade

-   Creating a manse

Powers
======

The word “Powers” refers to the various sources of supernatural effects
the Exalt can have upon the world, including (but not limited to):
Charms, Evocations, Spells, and Martial Arts Techniques.

System Presentation
-------------------

Powers are presented in a manner similar to the following:

> **Cost:** 2m  
> **Type:** Primary  
> **Mins:** Awareness 3

### Cost

Designates what character resources it takes to use the Power. A Power
of no cost (such as Permanent effects) will be designated with “--”.

-   **m** -- Motes of Essence, which can be a chosen combination of &gt;
    Personal or Peripheral

    -   Some Powers will specifically designate (personal) or &gt;
        (peripheral) in their cost.

-   **i** -- If used in a Combat Scene, requires **Impulse**. If
    used &gt; in an Encounter Scene, requires **Influence.**

-   **sm** -- Sorcerous Motes, which are described in more detail
    in &gt; the &gt;
    [<u>Sorcery</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fg4i3K9kSNsWkPiqsuHOSElKFzvc_E58KwLs5MT6cKk/edit?usp=sharing).

### Type

The Power’s Type designates how the power may be activated, and then how
long it is active for in the format:

**Type:** (Activation Type); (Duration)

So, a Power that activates *Reflexively* and is then *active* for the
remainder of the scene would be written as:

**Type:** Reflexive; Scene

If there is no duration written, the power is considered *Instant*, and
immediately dissipates after activation.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Terminating Active Powers</strong></p>
<p>An Exalt may willfully terminate a Power earlier than its stated duration (unless specifically stated otherwise.) However, they must then pay the activation cost again if they want to reuse the power.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### 

#### **Activation Type**

-   **Primary.** Consumes a Primary Action Slot. Only one Primary
    Action &gt; may be taken per turn.

-   **Secondary**. Consumes a Secondary Action Slot. Only one
    Secondary &gt; action may be taken per turn.

-   **Supplemental.** Enhances a Primary or Secondary Action. There
    is &gt; no limit to the number of supplemental Powers that may be
    combined &gt; together.

-   **Reflexive**. Conditional powers that may be used outside of
    normal &gt; turn order. So long as the condition is met, the
    Reflexive Power &gt; may always be used.

-   **Permanent**. Once purchased, this power is always active.

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Timing Conflicts</strong></p>
<p>If there is ever a timing conflict, such as with two Reflexive Charms going off at once, the resolution goes according to the <em>defender’s choice</em>.</p>
<p>If that is still unclear, there should be a contested roll using the relevant <em>Finesse</em> Attribute.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Minimum Requirements

When buying a Power, there are certain Minimums that must first be
met--such as the dot Rating in a specific Ability.

Charms
------

Charms are the natural expression of a character’s essence, a specific
and trained way for their internal power to be expressed upon the world.

These powers are inherently personal, and each expression will vary from
individual to individual: those that are listed are simply
generalizations and categorization for easy shorthand.

Typically, a character does not know they are using a specific charm
with a specific name--they simply know that their instinctual channeling
of their essence will produce the desired effect.

### Greater Charms

Greater Charms are powers more powerful, and far more complicated to
learn and perfect than a normal Charm.

A character must first be at **Essence 3** to learn a Greater Charm, and
it will cost **double** the amount of XP to learn.

Making New Powers
-----------------

Players and Storytellers are encouraged to work together to craft and
use Custom Charms that fit individual characters and their needs--the
provided charms are intended to cover most common uses of charms, but
could never encompass all that an Exalt *could* do.

Charms and Custom Charms do not have any sort of "niche protection" from
each other. Do not be afraid to create Custom Charms that have similar
effects.

Making custom charms can be a bit difficult, so let's run through an
example.

##### Example: Searing Sunfire Interdiction

**Identify what the need is**

> *I want a high-powered charm damage that also does Area of Effect
> (flurry) attacks, and alsos fits within the Solar Theme.*

### Imagine the visuals/effects

Exalted is a game centered around role-playing, scene interactions, and
heroes being grander than life. The impact a charm has upon a *scene* is
often of primary importance to the game. The mechanics are simply there
to make sure that is represented accurately.

Try to envision what your character is actually *doing*. Seek
inspiration from literature, games, and other charms. Not everything
needs to be super-cool and flashy, but spending a moment to think
through the actions and steps a character might do for the desired
effect.

In this example charm's case, the inspiration comes from a natural
source: a cascading sunbeam. As well, it’s well represented in popular
video games: a beam of light cascades from the heavens and damages those
in its way.

### Brainstorm Secondary effects And Limitations

Now that we have a visual effect--a beam of light appearing over the
target area--it's time to think of the consequences of that charm.

-   Sunlight is a heavy theme here, so it may do extra damage
    against &gt; Creatures of Darkness.

-   It's a bright beam of light. It's going to be pretty obvious.

-   It's an archery charm, so an arrow needs to be used. Maybe you
    fire &gt; an arrow into the sky, pierce a cloud and the sun peers
    through?

    -   Access to the sky then?

    -   Does it need access to the Sun itself, since it's a
        sunbeam? &gt; Can you not use this in the Underworld?

-   Does sunlight hurt other Solars? Or themselves? Are they immune
    to &gt; their own powers?

-   Is the attack indiscriminate in its area? Can the Solar exclude &gt;
    allies?

With that list of thoughts gathered, we can sort through what additional
limitations and benefits the charm will have, using motes and Impulse
cost to assist in that manner.

### Double check the theme

Solars have a theme of *excellency*, so we should try to avoid too many
limitations. As well, their powers should come from *within*, rather
than externally. Let's discard the *access to the Sun* right away.

*Damaging Creatures of Darkness* seems appropriate, let us keep it in.
We'll have to make sure the extra damage isn't too little or too much by
gauging it against other charms with that effect.

*Access to the sky* is limiting--you wouldn't be able to use this
underground or in tight enclosed spaces. That's a reasonable limitation,
and easily worked around in most cases.

Excluding allies from the attack could be useful, but that may make the
charm too powerful. Best just to leave it as a full, indiscriminate AoE
attack--much akin to a bomb. The player will have to work around that.

*"Solars being immune"* is an interesting one, because it's both a
benefit and a limitation. It means the solar could center the beam of
light around themselves--and their party members, if they are
Solars--and not be hurt. A sort of an addendum to the above limitation.

However, there are a couple of items to consider: the Solar thematic
rely more on "human paragon" rather than "sun-powered." This effect
would not be as appropriate as a Dragon-Blooded being able to stand in a
plume of fire. As well, with all of the other rules written and in
place, the Charm description has already become medium length. There is
no inherent rule about a charm's description length, but it is a quick
and easy metric to see if the charm has too much (or little) stuffed
into it.

For these reasons we will leave off that particular benefit/limitation.

### Add/Adjust numbers

This charm has ended up being pretty powerful, but that was its
intention. However, this does mean that I should put its Mote and
Impulse cost up at a higher level than normal.

### Judging Costs

#### Damage/Accuracy

+1 Base Damage is roughly equivalent to +2 Dice Accuracy. To make things
easier on us, I will frame things primarily in +X Damage.

#### Standard Attacks

The Base Ability *Push the Attack* pins +1 dmg per 2 Impulse. With the
Recovery Ability, an Impulse is worth 2 Peripheral Motes. This means
that pricing the mote cost for +1 dmg should never be at or more than 4
Motes, or 2 Impulse--it would be a worthless charm. The following
pricing is suggested:

1.  1 Impulse for +1Dmg/+2Dice

2.  2 Motes for +1Dmg/+2Dice.

3.  3 Motes for (+Essence Dice)

4.  4 Motes for (+Essence Damage), 1 impulse

#### Flurry Attacks

The total amount of damage should be considerably lower for Flurry
attacks--which are typically about clearing Lesser Foes from the
battlefield. Since this attack hits multiple targets, the Mote and
Impulse cost should double from a Standard Attack. As well, the total
amount granted should be capped, typically at (Essence).

-   **Cost:** 2 Impulse for +1Dmg/+2Dice

-   **Cost:** 4 Motes for +1Dmg/+2Dice

#### Unsoakable/Undodgeable

Remember, **an attack must have a counter**. Typically this means it
cannot *both* be unsoakable *and* undodgeable. These effects should
typically be around Essence 3, and no earlier than Essence 2.

These effects must *always* have an Impulse cost.

### Iterate/Edit

I have lied a bit to you with this Example: I have given the impression
that the process was an ordered, straightforward process, where one task
was completed before the other. This is completely false.

In reality, the actual process is to go through again and again, often
skipping steps and going back to them. You typically don't get the final
version of a Charm or ability on the first pass, and a lot of the unique
nature and interesting abilities come out through multiple edits.

### Avoiding Pitfalls

Making Charms and Powers is more of an art than a precise science.

#### Filling in Thematic Holes

The first question you should ask yourself when creating a Charm is “Am
I *just* trying to fill in an intentional weakness of an Ability?” If
so, you should take a double look at what your intent is, analyze if
there is an alternate way, or proceed very carefully.

It’s often the first instinct to try to fill such a hole in--after all,
we often want our characters to be the best at what they do, and seeing
such a glaring hole can be frustrating.

However, doing so is often detrimental to the longevity of the game--a
fully fleshed out character is often one that is flawed--and so is the
same with Abilities and Powers.

The easiest example to show is the difference between Melee and Archery
combat. Melee deals damage at targets that are nearby, while Archery
deals damage from afar. If you use charms to “fill in the gaps” of range
between the two, they suddenly lose most, if not all, of their distinct
natures from each other and simply become “Combat.”

This isn’t to say you *can’t* make a Melee charm that deals damage at a
range--there are those that already exist--but you should go into charm
creation realizing that *some* (but not all) holes are *intentional.* If
you are to make charms in those spaces, they should respect why the hole
is there in the first place.

#### Use Sparingly: Dice Tricks (TN Shifting, Double X’s)

“Dice Tricks” are effects that rely on the face values of dice, and
often contain wording such as “Whenever a 1 is rolled…” These types of
mechanics should be considered **very carefully**, and used **extremely
sparingly**.

When using a Dice Pool system, such as Exalted does with its (Att+Abi)x
d10’s, all players around the table will start to rely on *memorization*
of dice faces as symbols, rather than individually interpreting the
numbers.

In essence, people will start to quickly stop seeing the numbers:

**{ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 }**

Instead,minds will short circuit this, seeing this as the much more
manageable:

**{ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 2 }**

If you create a power that has “Dice tricks” built into it, such as
doubling any number with an 8 or higher, *you mess with this
short-circuit memorization*. This will slow down play considerably as
players will suddenly have to focus on the dice, reinterpret the dice as
actual numbers again, and then potentially undo their memorization.

**Only use a Dice Trick if it is necessary**. A sparing number of these
effects here and there--perhaps restricted by a conditional--is fine.
But if too many of them appear, it will slow down play considerably!

Merits
======

A Merit is any sort of benefit or background that may help the
character, outside of their normal internal powers would grant.

Merits are often intimately tied to a character’s story--they have
wealth because they were born into it--and typically may only be gained
or upgraded during character creation, or through the Projects system
during campaign.

Merits bought with XP or with Project Points cannot be removed or
cancelled *permanently* by the Storyteller without the Player’s
permission, and should be considered under the complete ownership of the
Player. For example, an Ally should not suddenly turn face and become an
antagonist without both the Player agreeing to such a turn of events.

Temporary restrictions to merits--such as an Ally being unable to
help--is explicitly allowed. However, the Storyteller should always be
judicious about such decisions.

If a Player chooses to lose or downgrade their bought Merits through
story means, they are awarded back whatever resources they used to buy
or upgrade the Merit.

The Storyteller may decide to award temporary Merits that are under the
full control and whim of the Storyteller--such as a platoon of soldiers
as a Command. If appropriate to the story, the Player may purchase
control of said Merit at full cost of either xp or Project Points, with
Storyteller permission.

\[\[ TODO**: Most merits are location-specific, or restrained in some
way.** Your cult is in X location, your language is Y language. I need
to denote this. \]\]

Merits with Charges
-------------------

In addition to their base effect, Merits in this category have
**Charges** equal to their Dot Rating.

### Backing(1-5)

The Character is an official in an organization. Their rating represents
how much organizational power the character has.

For example, Backing 2 would either represent being the head of a local
organization, or the leader of a local chapter of a global organization.

*Disadvantage:* Higher-ranking members may call upon the Character to do
a task and uphold duties. As well, lower members may come to the
Character for guidance.

**Additional Use*:*** The Character may instruct subordinates to Perform
a Task without question, so long as it is in line with the goals and
morals of the organization.

### Bond(1-5)

Your soul has been entwined with another’s, uniting your Destinies. The
character instinctively knows if their Bond is in danger, and the
general direction they are in.

**Note**: Bonded individuals must each have the Bond merit, though the
level does not need to be the same.

*Disadvantage:* Their Bond may always use the Bond in place of an
Intimacy for Social Influence.

**Additional Use:** Influence to directly harm, endanger, or otherwise
disadvantage their Bond is treated as Unacceptable Influence. This may
be used reflexively.

### Contacts (1-5)

You have a network of contacts in a given location and class of society
willing to give you information.

**Additional Use:** You may *Introduce a Fact* with a charge of
Contacts, rather than a Strife Point. The Fact must be centered on
information your Contacts could have gathered, in place of a Speciality.

### Cult(1-5)

The Character is a leader and/or target of worship for a religious cult,
gaining **+2 Peripheral Motes** per dot Rating.

*Disadvantage:* The cult requires periodic guidance and attention. As
well, it is often an unwelcome influence and potential political hazard.

### Wealth (1-5)

Wealth is a renewable source of money. A character with any source of
Wealth needs not worry for basic necessities or sustenance, and may
always purchase a place to rest.

*Disadvantage:* If the extent of your Wealth is known, people may
request charges of your Wealth.

**Additional Use**: Targets can be paid (or bribed) to Perform a Task
without needing a roll or any Social Influence. Some characters may
refuse this offer, or even be offended by it.

Standalone Merits
-----------------

### Ally (1-5)

Allies are individuals, groups, or organizations that a character may
call upon to aid them in their endeavors--proven to be an asset.

Allies are not at the whim and mercy of the character--they have their
own lives and concerns to deal with, but they can be assumed to not
willingly or knowingly hurt the player character.

The Rating of Allies represents both the scale and influence of the
ally: Rating 1 would be a competent, but still mortal--guard. Rating 3
would be an Exalt or a medium spanning organization. Rating 5 would be a
high-ratinging God or an organization such as the Guild.

### Artifact (2-5)

Artifacts are items that contain wondrous, supernatural effects upon the
world. Artifacts typically have some sort of inherent supernatural
usefulness to them that is **immediately available** on purchase of the
artifact.

Evocations are Powers the artifact contains that must be awakened by
**additionally** purchasing Evocations with xp.

Rating 2 Artifacts are minor wonders: they have some sort of inherent
supernatural usefulness, such as a water skin inlaid with jade that
filters and purifies all water within. Rating 2 Artifacts have **no**
Evocations.

Rating 3 Artifacts have 2-4 Evocations, with the maximum Essence
requirement being Essence 3

Rating 4 Artifacts have 3-6 Evocations, with the maximum Essence
requirement being Essence 4

Rating 5 Artifacts have 5-10 Evocations with the maximum Essence
requirement being Essence 5

### Language (1)

Each purchase of this merit represents a new language the Player
Character has learned. All characters are assumed to start with their
Local Tongue and Tradespeak, the common language.

**Example Languages**

-   **High Realm**: While using the same words and structure as Low &gt;
    Realm, formal and rigorous selection of certain words have
    marked &gt; the language of the Elite of the Realm into its own
    recognizable &gt; pattern.

-   **Low Realm:** Used by the commoners of the realm, this is a
    blend &gt; of Tradespeak and High Realm. The words and written
    characters are &gt; blended and simplified.

-   **Old Realm**: An ancient language which High Realm is based off
    of, &gt; which is the formal language of ancient texts. Most Gods
    still use &gt; Old Realm to communicate with Mortals, and have not
    bothered to &gt; learn the new languages.

-   **Directional Language**: While not a true language in itself,
    a &gt; Directional Language is a collection of general speech
    patterns &gt; and dialects that would fit as “close enough” with
    anybody living &gt; in the respective Cardinal Directions (Air,
    Water, Fire, Wood). &gt; This

-   **Local Tongue**: This marks the character as having the exact &gt;
    speech patterns and mannerisms as locals.

### Manse (3-5)

\[\[You get a manse!\]\]

Mutations
=========

\[\[Cosmetic Mutations do not cost points, but have no mechanical
Advantage. For example, the player may decide they have a tail, but
without purchasing it as a merit, they do not get the effect. \]\]

\[\[Alternate Travel (Air, sky, burrowing, climbing)

-   Perceive further

-   Perceive differently (electrosensing)

-   Native(Mice, cats, etc.)

-   Gain of natural weapon

-   Camouflage

-   Deadly

-   Penetrating Strike

-   Ranged weapon

-   Toxin

-   Fine Dexterity

    -   Humans have this boon.

-   Change of Size (Larger/smaller) --only with knack.

    -   Carrying Capacity

    -   +more to feats of strength

**Banes**

-   Loss of dexterity (cannot open doors, etc.)

    -   Humans have the “fine dexterity” Boon. The baseline is going
        to &gt; be around a house cat. This Bane goes below tht.

-   Conspicuous

-   Dangerous

-   Cannot do feats of strength

-   Reduced Endurance Pool\]\]

Boons
-----

All Mutations are built with a combination of **Boons** and **Banes**.

-   (+2) Flurry Bonus

    -   The first Flurry of any attack does not pay Impulse.

-   (+1) Dextrous Limb(s).

    -   Allows for grabbing and holding onto items at once. (Humans &gt;
        naturally have this boon for their two arms.)

-   (+1) Subtle Mutation

    -   Most Mutations are obvious, this modifier allows the mutation
        to &gt; be hidden by natural means when not in use.
        (e.g. retractable &gt; claws).

-   (+X) Endurance Bonus

    -   Grants 3x (X) extra Endurance. At level 3 or above, cannot
        be &gt; paired with Subtle.

-   (+2) Physical Speciality Bonus

    -   +1 to a speciality in an ability. May only affect Natural, &gt;
        Physical Abilities such as Athletics, Physique, Stealth,
        and &gt; Awareness.

-   (+1, +2) Natural Weaponry

    -   +1 grants Unarmed and Light Weapons. Paired with subtle,
        this &gt; can be something like retractable claws.

    -   +2 grants Medium and Heavy natural Weapons. Cannot be
        paired &gt; with subtle.

-   (+2) Non-Standard Movement. (wings, gas bladder, fins, &gt;
    wall-walking).

-   (+1, +2) Environmental Adaptation.

    -   Grants adaptation to non-standard environments, like
        extreme &gt; cold.

Banes
-----

-   **(-1, -2) Environmental restriction:** The character cannot
    live &gt; outside a specific, non-standard environment. -2 means
    this is &gt; temporary, such as amphibians drying out on land, -4
    will cause &gt; the character to start dying.

-   **(-1)** **Reflexive action**: (Cannot be paired with Subtle).
    The &gt; Mutation will react to stimuli, without any control of
    the &gt; character. (Chameleon skin changing color when under
    stress, for &gt; example)

Example Mutations
-----------------

### Extra Arms (3)

**Flurry Bonus (+2)  
Dextrous Limbs (+1)**  
The character possesses more than the normal amount of arms.

### Enhanced Sight (1)

**Speciality Bonus: Awareness (Vision)**

### Fins (2)

**Non-Standard Movement:** Swimming

### Wings (2)

**Non-Standard Movement:** Flying

### Scales (1-3)

**Endurance Bonus**

### Tail (1)

**Speciality Bonus: Athletics (Balance)**

### Tail, Prehensile (2)

**Speciality Bonus: Athletics (Balance)  
Dextrous Limb(s)**

### Toxin Resistance (1)

**Speciality Bonus: Physique (Resistance)**

### Gills (Restrictive) (0)

**Environmental Adaptation (+2)**: **Underwater  
Environmental Restriction (-2): Underwater**

Supernatural Ability(N/A)
-------------------------

\[\[Grants the ability to purchase a specific Supernatural Ability (such
as Sorcery). Typically used for mortals. It’s how you do Thaumaturgist.

You have to convince a God (or other creature of power) to give you this
ability. It’s not something you can do in a Project---hence (N/A)

Exalted characters cannot start with this Merit. \]\]

Mutation (X)
------------

\[\[Might have a bit of a different thing for mutations than just pure
points. Something like "You build the effect the mutation gives you. +1
DV is 2. Obvious -1.

That or I spell out specific mutations. 3e Core has them priced way too
high though.

Low priority.\]\]

Antagonists
===========

Lesser Foes and Groups
----------------------

Lesser Foes are those that have no chance at harming their antagonists,
and instead will use their actions to **Support** a Greater Foe. During
their action, they may instead give ½ their Attack Pool in Impulse to
their Ally.

Lesser Foes may be **Grouped** together. For each increase in
**Magnitude**, they gain 5 Endurance and 2 to their Attack Pool.

**Mortals** Have a lesser pool of Endurance:  
10 + (Stamina + Athletics + Physique)

<table style="width:99%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 98%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Antagonists are not Player characters</strong></p>
<p>[[ Don’t build them like they are.</p>
<p>Dragonbloods tend to be Essence 1-2.</p>
<p>Essence Rating prerequisites aren’t hard-enforced for antagonists. The essence rating represents how hard it is to train, how long they have to dedicate your life to it. Jo Shmo DB isn’t going to get an Essence 4 MA technique while stuck at Essence 1, but a monk who has been training at it their entire life might, while still technically at Essence 3]]</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Spirits
-------

### Fogshark

**Endurance** 15  
**DV** 4  
Evasion 4  
Soak 3  
Attack Pool 8  
Base Damage 4

**Sensing**: 6  
**Stealth:** 8

Fogsharks are creatures that live between the Spirit and Waking world,
and may only be found where the veil between the worlds is thin,
particularly in respect to the element of Water.

They swarm in the skies, dragging their fog and mists with them--a
fogshark attack can not occur in any bright-lit or otherwise illuminated
area.

**Tactics**

Fogsharks are ambush predators, almost always moving in small groups or
packs. Typically there will be a Prime shark to act as a Major Foe,
swarmed with a pack of Lesser Foes.

The sharks will ambush characters in seeming moments of physical
weakness, particularly any who is bleeding. They will perform a grapple
maneuver, and then single-mindedly attack their target until forced off.

If forced off their target, or by missing their grapple, they will
attempt to retreat to the mists to await their next attack.

Being mindless beasts, they *cannot be reasoned with*.

**Abilities**

**Blood in the Water  
**The Fogshark gains +3 on any roll to percieve or track characters that
are bleeding.

**The Fog  
**The Fog is a supernatural impairment to all senses, providing Full
Cover to those that cannot perceive through it. Characters must have
supernatural senses to attempt to pierce the fog, rolling against a
Difficulty 4 to counter only Partial Cover.

Fogsharks may sense through the fog without penalty.

**Dissolve into the Fog**  
As a Gathering Action, the Fogshark may return to the supernatural mist.
They may only do so once every three actions, and cannot reemerge from
the Fogs for at least one action after entering them.

Demons
------

### Blood Ape

**Endurance** 20

**Initiative** 3  
**DV** 5  
Evasion 3  
Soak 5  
Attack Pool 8  
Base Damage 4

**Sensing**: 3  
**Stealth:** 1  
**Guile:** 0  
**Resolve:** 3

Things I mention and need to explain
====================================

Anytime I mention something. It MUST be explained. This is scratch space
to make sure I don’t forget.

Try to keep this list small.

-   Falling Damage

-   Need to get all the Types of Charms organized. What does a
    Secondary &gt; Action mean, etc.

-   Sizes and their bonuses (will be with Lunars/Mutations):

    -   **Miniscule** + 4 Evasion/Sneak, cannot use Strength, -10 &gt;
        Endurance.

    -   **Small** +2 Evasion/Sneak, -1 Feats of Strength -5 Endurance

    -   **Medium**

    -   **Large** +2 Soak, -1 Fine Dexterity/Sneak, +5 End

    -   **Gigantic** +4 Soak, No Fine Dexterity/Sneak, -2 Evasion,
        +10 &gt; End

    -   **Titanic** +6 Soak, +20 End, Obvious, no Dex/Sneak, no Evasion

Charm Idea:

Match someone’s initiative to yourself.
