-   [Introduction](#introduction)
    -   [Themes](#themes)
        -   [Actions are Momentous](#actions-are-momentous)
        -   [What is Done Cannot be
            Undone](#what-is-done-cannot-be-undone)
        -   [The Heroes are Flawed](#the-heroes-are-flawed)
    -   [Dice](#dice)
    -   [  
        Unofficial](#unofficial)
    -   [Feedback](#feedback)
    -   [Setting](#setting)
        -   [  
            History ](#history)
            -   [The Time of Glory](#the-time-of-glory)
            -   [The Time of Madness](#the-time-of-madness)
            -   [The Time of Sorrow](#the-time-of-sorrow)
            -   [The Time of Tumult](#the-time-of-tumult)
-   [<span class="smallcaps">Character
    Creation</span>](#character-creation)
    -   [**<span class="smallcaps">Steps</span>**](#steps)
        -   [Finishing Touches](#finishing-touches)
    -   [  
        Advancement](#advancement)
        -   [  
            XP Gain](#xp-gain)
        -   [Gaining Resources](#gaining-resources)
    -   [](#section)
    -   [  
        Alternate Starts](#alternate-starts)
        -   [Higher Essence Starts](#higher-essence-starts)
        -   [](#section-1)
        -   [  
            Mortal Start](#mortal-start)
            -   [Steps](#steps-1)
-   [The Exalted](#the-exalted)
    -   [Solars](#solars)
    -   [Dragonblooded](#dragonblooded)
    -   [Lunars](#lunars)
    -   [Sidereals](#sidereals)
    -   [Abyssals](#abyssals)
    -   [Infernals](#infernals)
    -   [Alchemicals](#alchemicals)
    -   [Fae](#fae)
    -   [Dragon Kings](#dragon-kings)
    -   [Essence](#essence)
        -   [Anima](#anima)
            -   [](#section-2)
            -   [  
                Using Anima](#using-anima)
            -   [Build Power](#build-power)
            -   [Narrative scope](#narrative-scope)
        -   [Anima Banner](#anima-banner)
    -   [Excellencies](#excellencies)
    -   [The Great Curse](#the-great-curse)
        -   [Limit](#limit)
            -   [Breaking Early](#breaking-early)
        -   [Limit Break](#limit-break)
    -   [Attributes](#attributes)
        -   [Strength](#strength)
        -   [Dexterity](#dexterity)
        -   [  
            Charisma](#charisma)
        -   [Insight](#insight)
        -   [  
            Intelligence](#intelligence)
        -   [Wits](#wits)
    -   [Abilities](#abilities)
        -   [Archery](#archery)
        -   [Athletics](#athletics)
        -   [Brawl](#brawl)
        -   [Melee](#melee)
        -   [Physique](#physique)
        -   [Thrown](#thrown)
        -   [<span class="smallcaps">Bureaucracy</span>](#bureaucracy)
        -   [Command](#command)
        -   [Integrity](#integrity)
        -   [Investigation](#investigation)
        -   [Performance](#performance)
        -   [Socialize](#socialize)
        -   [Subterfuge](#subterfuge)
        -   [Awareness](#awareness)
        -   [Craft](#craft)
        -   [Lore](#lore)
        -   [Medicine](#medicine)
        -   [Navigation](#navigation)
        -   [Stealth](#stealth)
        -   [Survival](#survival)
    -   [Supernatural Abilities](#supernatural-abilities)
        -   [Occult](#occult)
            -   [Uses](#uses)
            -   [Restrictions](#restrictions)
    -   [  
        Custom Abilities](#custom-abilities)
        -   [Example Custom Abilities](#example-custom-abilities)
    -   [  
        Merits](#merits)
        -   [Using Merits](#using-merits)
            -   [Exhausting Merits](#exhausting-merits)
        -   [General Merits](#general-merits)
            -   [Fact](#fact)
        -   [Natural Merits](#natural-merits)
            -   [Backing ](#backing)
            -   [Bond](#bond)
            -   [Contacts ](#contacts)
            -   [Cult](#cult)
            -   [Wealth](#wealth)
            -   [Ally](#ally)
            -   [Artifact](#artifact)
            -   [  
                Language](#language)
        -   [  
            Special Merits](#special-merits)
            -   [Master Stylist ](#master-stylist)
            -   [Mutation](#mutation)
        -   [Supernatural Merits](#supernatural-merits)
            -   [Endowment](#endowment)
-   [The System](#the-system)
    -   [Structure](#structure)
        -   [Narrative System](#narrative-system)
        -   [Encounters](#encounters)
        -   [Combat](#combat)
        -   [Projects](#projects)
    -   [  
        Core Mechanics](#core-mechanics)
        -   [Action Rolls](#action-rolls)
        -   [When to call for a roll](#when-to-call-for-a-roll)
        -   [Retrying Rolls](#retrying-rolls)
        -   [Determining Difficulty](#determining-difficulty)
        -   [What to Roll?](#what-to-roll)
    -   [  
        Advantages and Disadvantages](#advantages-and-disadvantages)
        -   [Assigning Modifiers](#assigning-modifiers)
    -   [  
        Stunting](#stunting)
    -   [  
        Strife](#strife)
        -   [Strife Guidelines](#strife-guidelines)
    -   [Special Actions ](#special-actions)
        -   [Teamwork](#teamwork)
        -   [Contested Actions](#contested-actions)
            -   [Taking the Average](#taking-the-average)
        -   [Group Rolls](#group-rolls)
        -   [  
            Recall Fact](#recall-fact)
        -   [Read Intentions/Intimacy](#read-intentionsintimacy)
        -   [  
            Influence Intimacy](#influence-intimacy)
            -   [Emotion](#emotion)
        -   [Perform Task](#perform-task)
    -   [**<span class="smallcaps">Social
        Interactions</span>**](#social-interactions)
        -   [Intimacies](#intimacies)
        -   [Temporary Intimacies](#temporary-intimacies)
        -   [Unacceptable Influence](#unacceptable-influence)
        -   [Changing Intimacies](#changing-intimacies)
        -   [Groups](#groups)
    -   [  
        Storyteller Timelines](#storyteller-timelines)
    -   [Magnitudes](#magnitudes)
    -   [](#section-3)
-   [Encounters](#encounters-1)
    -   [Creating an Encounter](#creating-an-encounter)
        -   [Goal](#goal)
        -   [Key Issues](#key-issues)
        -   [Generating Key Issues](#generating-key-issues)
        -   [  
            Complications](#complications)
    -   [  
        Playing an Encounter](#playing-an-encounter)
        -   [Flow](#flow)
        -   [Consequences](#consequences)
        -   [Altering/Adding Goals](#alteringadding-goals)
        -   [Antagonist Goals](#antagonist-goals)
        -   [Sabotaging Progress](#sabotaging-progress)
        -   [Characters on the Defense](#characters-on-the-defense)
        -   [Encounter End](#encounter-end)
        -   [Final Argument](#final-argument)
    -   [Example Encounters](#example-encounters)
        -   [Example 1: The Trade Prince](#example-1-the-trade-prince)
            -   [Goal](#goal-1)
            -   [Key Issues](#key-issues-1)
            -   [Complications](#complications-1)
        -   [  
            Example 2: Escape](#example-2-escape)
            -   [Goal](#goal-2)
            -   [Key Issues](#key-issues-2)
            -   [Complications](#complications-2)
-   [Combat](#combat-1)
    -   [The Combat Round](#the-combat-round)
        -   [Turn Order](#turn-order)
        -   [Holding Action](#holding-action)
    -   [Zones](#zones)
        -   [Move](#move)
        -   [Attacking between Zones](#attacking-between-zones)
    -   [  
        Maneuvers](#maneuvers)
        -   [Build Power](#build-power-1)
    -   [Strike](#strike)
        -   [Damage](#damage)
    -   [Defeat](#defeat)
        -   [<span class="smallcaps">Healing and
            Recovery</span>](#healing-and-recovery)
        -   [Death and Dying](#death-and-dying)
    -   [The Environment](#the-environment)
    -   [Minor Characters](#minor-characters)
    -   [Equipment](#equipment)
        -   [Armor](#armor)
        -   [Weapons](#weapons)
            -   [Mundane *Weapon Tags*](#mundane-weapon-tags)
            -   [Special Tags](#special-tags)
    -   [Elsewhere](#elsewhere)
-   [Projects](#projects-1)
    -   [Resources](#resources)
        -   [Pooling Resources](#pooling-resources)
        -   [Keystone Resource](#keystone-resource)
    -   [The Right Tool for the Job](#the-right-tool-for-the-job)
        -   [Gaining/Improving Merits](#gainingimproving-merits)
        -   [Making Changes to the World](#making-changes-to-the-world)
        -   [Project Resistance](#project-resistance)
        -   [](#section-4)
        -   [  
            Repairing, Altering, or Destroying
            Projects](#repairing-altering-or-destroying-projects)
        -   [](#section-5)
    -   [  
        Obstruction Rolls](#obstruction-rolls)
        -   [Alteration ](#alteration)
        -   [Problems](#problems)
        -   [Major Problem](#major-problem)

Introduction
============

### Themes

Exalted is a game where the heroes are demigods, fonts of power. That
which mortals toil and test against fall easily against the might of the
Exalts, and the Exalts now test their mettle against the monsters and
problems of the world: from the chaotic Fae beasts which rip at the
edges of the world, to the horrid effects of greed and systemic
corruption that hides in the hearts of man.

More often than not, they will succeed in what they have set their mind
to-yet they must explore the consequences and repercussions of such
actions.

To play Exalted, there are a few core setting themes that should be
followed:

#### Actions are Momentous

The Player Character is the right person at the right time to change the
world—for better or for worse. This blessing and burden cannot be given
to another, and the Gods are restrained in their actions for reasons
ranging from arcane laws, to being involved in their own machinations,
to being too weak to do anything.

From the small, personal stories to world-shattering changes, the Exalt
stands at the center of it.

#### What is Done Cannot be Undone

Exaltations cannot be rescinded, the dead cannot return to life except
in a hollow mockery of what they once were, and the progress of time is
constantly moving forward. Exalts must face the consequences of all
their actions.

#### The Heroes are Flawed

Despite all of their powers and might, Exalts are still human and carry
with them their flaws—and this does not make them any less of a hero.

### Dice

*Exalted Reincarnated* uses multiple ten-sided dice (d10s). It is
suggested to have fifteen dice (real or virtual). The dice will
represent digits between 1 and 10. (Some dice will have a 0, treat that
as a 10).

###  Unofficial

**Exalted**, by **Onyx Path Publishing,** is a role-playing game
blending together high-action combat, social intrigue, and epic-scale
actions from demigod heroes.

The setting is full of rich lore, intricacies, and horrors that inspire
and captivate the mind, begging to be explored by a hero of grand scale.

However, the complexity and sheer size of the rules structure makes
playing the game a daunting task, even for experienced role-players.

**Exalted Reincarnated** is a fan-made work to rebuild and recreate
Exalted from the ground up to better match its rich Lore, Setting, and
Style.

This is Fan-Made material. It is unofficial, and makes no claims of
ownership over Onyx Path Publishing materials.

You will need the official *Exalted* books for lore, setting and
reference material. *Exalted Reincarnated* makes assumptions based off
of Third Edition, but can be played with any of the editions.

### Feedback

This project is constantly evolving and changing. If you find problems
or want to simply share suggestions, please do so!

*Have fun!*

Setting
-------

Creation trembles, poised at the turn of a new age. She strains as the
systems and rules which long held her together collapse around her. Her
population have become thrown into chaos, a time uncertain.

The mighty Realm, whose reach expanded even out of the Blessed Isle, has
lost her Empress with no heir declared. Now, each Dragonblooded Clan
vies to claim the throne for their own, whether it be by politics or by
force—ignoring all else that goes on around them.

The Silver Pact, that loose association only tied together by their
hatred and resistance to the Realm, find their alliances crumbling.
Their stances mutate and shift just as their Lunar leaders do. Deep
rivalries and opposing systems clash as they turn their attention from
the faltering and collapsing Realm onto each other.

The Great City of Thorns has fallen, another wellspring of Death and her
servants bubbling up from the ever-present threat of the Underworld.

The silent and secretive Sidereals, those Seers from their hidden
places, watch, attempting to hold together what strands of Fate and
Reality they might, bickering on what Is and what Shall Be.

All the while, the minor powers seek to claim their own lands and hold
in this uncertain time.

*In this time, the Sun has brought his Chosen back, those great heroes,
those terrible Mad Emperors.*

###  History 

#### The Time of Glory

In the First Age of Mankind, the Exalted—those mortals gifted with a
portion of the god’s powers—reigned from above. And at their forefront
were the brightest among them, the Chosen of the Sun—the Solars.

The First Age was a marvel. Few, if none, had want for bread, nor
suffered from diseases, nor lacked purpose. The lands of Creation
advanced in grand workings—vast interconnected empires spread across the
land, with networks of great trade. Rivalries of course existed, and the
occasional skirmish was fought, but mostly it was a time of peace, where
the greatest thread to Creation came from the vast chaos of the
Wyld—disturbed by the constant expansion of Creation.

#### The Time of Madness

But in the heart of this First Age lived something dark, something that
festered and grew just as the borders of Creation grew. Inside of
mankind’s lies a corruptive force, a so-called Great Curse that is a
part of us all, but shows itself most to those who have great power. And
the Exalted had so much power.

Alongside great civic works grew monuments of great ego, held together
soley by force of will. Hard, necessary labor soon became the sentence
of criminals and undesirables—a definition that grew to encompass more
and more peoples over time. What were once rivalries between empires
soon descended into endless, bloody wars that threatened the very fabric
of Creation itself.

And, at the forefront of this madness were the Solars—just as they were
during peace. In a shining moment of ultimate pride, one of them
attempted to Usurp their Patron: the Unconquered Sun. The heavens quaked
and nearly shattered at the battle, but eventually the Sun kept true to
his name and defeated his Chosen, but not without great, debilitating
wounds that led to his collapse. Nights—once a conscious gift—became a
necessity for so that he might recover: and nights have gotten steadily
longer as the years have passed on.

The Heavens raged at this affront and sealed themselves off from
Creation. This was enough to shock the Exalted, and though it was
bloody, they managed to survive though the lands of Creation were
permanently scarred and changed.

#### The Time of Sorrow

The Dragonblooded, the most numerous and most mortal of the Exalted,
were those that were left to pick up the pieces in the rubble of the
First Age. Slowly, over millenia, they rebuilt. While it was a shadow of
what it once was, it became a peace of sorts. They managed to stabilize
the world, beat back a thousand dooms and angry Gods that threatened the
mortals of the broken, shurnken lands of Creation.

But over time, the natural distrust of the other Exalts and their
actions turned to fear, eventually turning their gaze inward into a sort
of pride. Left to pick up the pieces, to salvage the mess of others,
they soon started to feel it was their divine duty, and in a way a
judgement that their worth was better than all others.

This Pride soon became doctrine, and one mandated by their new Scarlet
Empress. All other Exalts, should they not swear fealty to the
Dragonblooded, would be seen as dangers to be removed.

This pride only paradoxically only grew when the Outer Provinces
rebelled and seperated at this mandate. It only grew as their Empress
was slain—now a matyr to the cause. A Holy Symbol of their greatness
shattered and broken by the morally corrupt others.

#### The Time of Tumult

Today, the lands of the central Realm is in a constant state of a civil
war—though none dare to call it a war. Each Dragonblooded house vies for
the throne, each declaring an (often dubious) tie to the great Scarlet
Empress as proof. Among them is Mnemon, a proven descendent of the
Empress, but she has Exalted as a Solar and all have banded against her
to stop her.

A great Lunar General rebelled against the House Tepet, splitting their
Northern lands in twain. He has renamed himself the Bull of the North,
and has become a constant threat from the outside.

Among all this chaos, in the central realm and the scattered city-states
of the rebellious Outer Provinces, wander the Wyld Hunt. What was once a
unified, independant gathering of Exalts tasked with dealing with
demons, fae, angry Gods, and other threats to Creation, has become
fractured. Some chapters of the Wyld hunt stick true to their
goals—recruiting new Exalts to serve Creation itself. Others have become
little more than political extensions, threatening any who do not agree
with their ideology.

<span class="smallcaps">Character Creation</span>
=================================================

<span class="smallcaps">Part 1</span>

Aspects of the character are measured in **Dot Ratings,** the higher
number representing greater proficiency. Dot ratings range from 0-5,
with 0 being untrained, 2 average, and 5 masterful.

An online character sheet is provided
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1x2HMrSpvbnjuPyWsJxIqGz17zCdvyaTQnok4N7NBqFk/edit?usp=sharing).
(So long as this is the most up-to-date version of the pdf.)

**<span class="smallcaps">Steps</span>**
----------------------------------------

1.  Choose your Exaltation and associated Caste, noting down any special
    abilities granted.  
      
    Your Exaltation will influence everything about your character, from
    what charms they may take, so take some time exploring your options.

2.  Choose Three [Intimacies](#intimacies), which are simple sentences
    that describes your relation or devotions to certain ideals, people,
    or places.

    Your Intimacies together should answer the questions:

    -   What is a tie I have to the world around me? Why do I care
        whether the world is destroyed or not?

    -   What pushes me to continue forward, in spite of all the
        hardship, danger, and anguish I will encounter?

    -   Why do I stick with the party? Is there a particular character I
        resonate with? Do we share a common goal?

3.  Choose your character’s [Great Curse](#the-great-curse), the
    character flaw which your Exalt struggles with day in and day out.
    Example Great Curses are provided with your Exaltation, as each
    exalt tends to follow similar themes, but they by no means need to
    be followed verbatim.

    Describing a Great Curse should answer these questions:

    **How is the character flawed?**  
    How does the Curse describe your character? Are they overly
    compassionate, taking on the worlds ills onto themselves at their
    own detriment? Are they a braggart, who cannot help but show off?

    **What aggravates the flaw?**  
    What is something that you can encounter in the world that will
    cause the Great Curse to rear its ugly head? Is it the sight of
    those in power mistreating those that they are supposed to protect?

    **What happens?**  
    When your character cannot take the accumulated stress of their
    adventures anymore, what action will they (most likely) take? Do
    they shut themselves off from the world? Do they take action,
    ignoring any potential consequences

4.  Distribute **16 dots** into [Attributes](#attributes). Each must be
    at least 1, and no more than 5. Attributes are your general skills,
    applied constantly to the world.

    Suggested Spread:  
    *\[4, 3, 3, 3, 2, 1\]*

5.  Describe your specific skills, or [Abilities](#Abilities).

    -   Record any Supernatural Abilities granted from your Exaltation.

    -   Choose **3 Abilities**, which are your primary skills—what your
        character is *known* for.

        Set them to either:  
        *\[5, 4, 3\]* or *\[4, 4, 4\]*

    -   Spend **15 dots** in the remaining Abilities, with none being
        higher than **3** at this time.

        Suggested:  
        *\[3, 3, 2, 2, 2, 1, 1, 1\]*

6.  Gain **3 Lesser Powers,** which are situational and unique effects
    your character can have in the world.

    Powers can be any combination of:

    -   Universal Charms

    -   Exaltation Charms.

    -   Spells

    -   Martial Arts

    -   Artifact Evocations.

7.  Detail out the [Armor and Weapons](#Armor_and_Weapons) your
    character uses. Any other mundane equipment the character has need
    not be written down—so long as it is a reasonable thing for your
    character to carry, it may be used.

8.  You may now spend **16 xp** freely. You may use this to increase
    Abilities past **3**.

    Keep any experience that is unspent.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Experience Costs</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Attribute</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Ability</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Powers</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Lesser</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Greater<br />
(Requires Essence 3)</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>8</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Capstone<br />
(Requires Essence 5)</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

1.  Detail the character’s [Merits](#merits), which are external aspects
    of your character—allies, money, backgrounds, and history.

    -   Write two **Facts** about the character’s past.

        -   One should be dedicated to your history, such as the city
            they lived in, or if they are from an important family
            lineage.

        -   The other should be dedicated to a past accomplishment.
            Often, this is directly tied to why you were chosen to be an
            Exalt.

    -   Mark down **two** standard **Languages**: one representing your
        local tongue, and one common to the all the Player Characters
        (typically Riverspeak).

    -   Gain **7 Dots** of Merits**,** with which to purchase additional
        merit dots. A **4 dot** merit may only be purchased with
        storyteller permission

        Suggested:  
        *\[3,2,1,1\]*

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Starting with a Greater Merit</p>
<p>With special Storyteller permission, you may start with a 4-dot merit, which will place you “in debt” by 1 Keystone.</p>
<p>This takes the form of an unresolved story tie related to that merit. Perhaps you are on the run for stealing it. Maybe it is defective somehow, or in great danger of falling apart? This debt will remain until that plot thread is resolved.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Finishing Touches

Once your character has been finalized, it is time to record static
values. If you are using the provided character sheet, this next part
will be completed automatically.

1.  Choose a name for your character and describe them. This description
    should include your [Anima Banner](#anima-banner), the personal
    soulshape of light that surrounds your character when brimming with
    power.

<!-- -->

1.  Set your [Essence](#essence) to 1, the starting point for all
    Exalts. This sets you apart from most mortals who do not have an
    essence rating at all. (Essence 0).

2.  Start with a **Mote Pool of 8**, which is how you empower might
    charms, spells, and techniques. The pool starts completely filled.

3.  **Health**  
    Set to 20, then add (Physique) additional points.  
    In a combat scene, represents how long you may remain in the fight
    before collapsing from fatigue.

4.  **Accuracy**  
    (Weapon Att. + Weapon Ability) + (Weapon Acc)  
    The Attribute and Ability you use to calculate accuracy is dependent
    on your weapon. For example, a Heavy Maul will require Strength and
    Close Combat, while a Light Bow would require Dexterity and Ranged
    Combat. See [Weapons](#Armor_and_Weapons|outline).

5.  **Damage**  
    Greater of (Strength, Dexterity, or Essence), and add your bonus
    from (Weapon).

    When attacking a foe, this is the amount of wounds you inflict upon
    the foe by default.  
      
    Martial Arts or chosen weapons, can change or modify the base
    damage, but can never bring it lower than (Essence).

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rounding</p>
<p>When taking the average of numbers, always round up to the nearest whole number.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

1.  **Evasion**  
    (Dexterity + Athletics)/2 + (Armor Modifier)

2.  **Block**  
    (Strength + Physique)/2 + (Armor Modifier)

3.  **Resolve**  
    (Wits + Integrity)/2.  
    Used to defend against anything that would sway your mind and
    actions, from deceptively sweet words to mind-altering Spells.

 Advancement
-----------

Essence increases automatically depending on how much **total** xp has
been gained, (+30xp) for each level.

|             |              |
|-------------|--------------|
| **Essence** | **Total XP** |
| 1           | 0            |
| 2           | 30           |
| 3           | 60           |
| 4           | 90           |
| 5           | 120          |
| 6 (+)       | 150 (+50)    |

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Essence 6+</strong></p>
<p>Once an Exalt reaches Essence 6, they start to transcend mortal boundaries. They may push their Attributes and Abilities past rating 5, up to their current Essence Level.</p>
<p>Each Essence Level past 6 requires 50 xp.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Remember that each Essence Rank provides:

-   +5 Health

-   +2 Maximum Motes

-   Ensures a minimum Base Damage of (Essence)

At **Essence 3** and **Essence 5**, the character gains access to
purchasing **Greater** and **Capstone** charms, respectively.

You may only save up to **One** **Power’s** worth of experience to
purchase higher level powers on reaching this milestone—e.g. you cannot
reach Essence 3 and then suddenly have 5 Greater Charms in your
repertoire

###  XP Gain

Player Characters in the same group should be kept at the same amount of
experience points, so that no single character gets significantly ahead
or behind others—as well, it takes the entire group to create moments,
not individuals.

Players should gain **Two XP** as a base for each Session, and gain an
additional **One XP** for meeting any and each of the following:

-   Creating a moment of excellent roleplay.

-   A character falling victim to their Great Curse, impeding their
    journey in some way. This does not need to be a Limit Break.

-   Reaching a milestone in a player character’s personal story.

-   Reaching a milestone in the overarching Story.

-   Suffering a great defeat.

Gain **Two XP** for any of the following:

-   Finishing a Story.

-   A Player Character being forced to cheat death, or actually dying.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Tuning Experience Gain</strong></p>
<p>Consider how long you want to play the game, and adjust your base Experience gain based on how quickly you want to meet milestones. Remember that:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>An average of 5xp will be 6 sessions a level,<br />
or 30 Sessions to reach Essence 6.</p></li>
<li><p>An average of 7xp will be 4 sessions a level,<br />
or 22 Sessions to reach Essence 6</p></li>
<li><p>An average of 10 xp will be 3 sessions a level,<br />
or 15 Sessions to reach Essence 6.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Gaining Resources

Project Resources should be sought out and rewarded, based on the
Player’s actions in the story—it represents everything from riches,
favors, or manpower gathered.

Each point of Resources is equivalent to a dot of Merits, or a scale of
a World Project. However, Merits or Projects of Scale **4 or Higher**
must seek out a **Keystone** to complete the project.

Unlike Experience Points, Resources *do not* need to be the same between
characters—deciding who gets what is completely a decision that can be
done in character, if something is limited.

 Alternate Starts
----------------

### Higher Essence Starts

If you wish to start at higher Essence, the following are *suggested*
paths for character advancement—you are not *required* to level up this
way.

Follow Character Creation, and then add an additional:

|                     |           |           |           |           |
|---------------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
|                     | **Ess 2** | **Ess 3** | **Ess 4** | **Ess 5** |
| **Attributes**      | 1         | 3         | 4         | 5         |
| **Abilities**       | 4         | 5         | 7         | 8         |
| **Lesser Powers**   | 3         | 5         | 6         | 7         |
| **Greater Powers**  | \-        | 1         | 3         | 4         |
| **Capstone Powers** | \-        | \-        | \-        | 1         |
| **Merits/Projects** | 5         | 10        | 15        | 20        |

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Player Character Exceptionalism</p>
<p>Player Characters are unusual in just how quickly they progress, and are not bound by their Exaltations limits. This is <em>unusual</em> and not representative of the world at large.</p>
<p>For example, it often takes decades or even a millennia to reach Essence 5, a marker that may be reached within a year for your Player Characters.</p>
<p>As well, non-Player Characters are far more restricted by their Exaltation: the vast majority of Dragonbloods are at Essence 2 or lower, for example.</p>
<p>This is ignored for the sake of fun, and making sure each Player at the table are at the same level.</p>
<p>If you truly wish to exaggerate the difference between Exaltations for Player Characters (this is not recommended for new Players), use the following:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Dragonbloods and Liminals</strong> advance at +30xp until Essence 3, +50xp until Essence 5, then +100xp after Essence 5.</p></li>
<li><p>Most other Exalts start at Essence 2, with an extra 8xp to spend at character creation. They advance every +30xp until Essence 5, then at +50xp.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Solars, Abyssals, and Infernals</strong> start at Essence 3, with an extra 12xp to spend at character creation. They advance every +20xp until Essence 5, then +40xp.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### 

###  Mortal Start

It is quite natural to want to start the adventure before the Exalted
have become what they are. This should be taken with great care and
coordination with your Players—this a game of the Exalted, not mortals,
after all.

Even as a mortal, those Destined to become Exalted are heroic, above
normal mortals. They follow this creation guidance:

#### Steps

1.  Distribute **12 dots** into Attributes. Each must be at least 1, and
    no more than **3**.

    *Suggested:**  
    **\[3, 3, 2, 2, 1, 1\]*

<!-- -->

1.  Select **3 Abilities** that your character is known for. One of
    these may be a *Supernatural Ability* that will be gained when
    Exalting, though they must take the *Endowed (3)* Merit to reflect
    this.

    Set these abilities to:  
    *\[4, 3, 3\]*

2.  Distribute **9 dots** in any of the remaining Abilities. None can be
    brought above 3.

3.  Gain one **Fact** dedicated to your history.

4.  Mark down **two** standard **Languages**: one representing your
    local tongue, and one common to the all the Player Characters
    (typically Riverspeak).

5.  Gain **4 dots** of Merits. You may go into keystone debt to do so,
    and may purchase Special or Supernatural Merits.

6.  Detail out the [Armor and Weapons](#Armor_and_Weapons) your
    character uses. Any other mundane equipment the character has need
    not be written down—so long as it is a reasonable thing for your
    character to carry, it may be used.

7.  You may now spend **8 xp** freely. You may use this to increase
    Abilities to no more than **4**.

8.  Set **Health** to 15, then add (Physique) additional points.

9.  The remaining derived values are calculated as normal.

The Exalted
===========

<span class="smallcaps">Part 2</span>

### Solars

Play a Solar if you want to be a paragon of mankind.
&lt;&lt;TODO&gt;&gt;

### Dragonblooded

Most Dragonblooded live in the center of the Realm, confident in their
broken empire and taught that they are the rulers of the world. But
there are many who live in the Outer Provinces, able to look inwards and
see the same Pride that they so greatly place on others.

### Lunars

During the Great Wars of the First Age, the independant and disparate
groups of the Lunars feared the worst. Many fled, taking their peoples
and the very land itself with them—some to what is now the Outer
Provinces, but many to the deep Wylds. Rumors and signs of these lost
poeple and lands show up from time to time.

Never a unified people, the Lunars have become even more fractured,
operating as independant entities. The attempt at unifying them—the
Silver Pack—is little more than a thin gathering, its power limited to
barely preventing internal wars between members.

One of the lands stolen was the Caul—a place sacred to both Lunars and
Dragonbloods. The realm has never forgiven this great treachery, blaming
all Lunars for it. Thousands of ill-fated expeditions have been sent to
find it—none of which have returned.

### Sidereals

The Seers were the first ones to see the madness of the Exalted before
it happened. They saw two paths—one where they assassinated the Solars
before their madness ripped Creation apart, one smaller path where they
counseled and guided the Exalted. Though the decision was bitter, they
chose the path of mercy—a decision questioned greatly as the lands of
Creation nearly fell to Oblivion.

The Sidereals suffered greatly when exiled from Heaven, as they were cut
off from their most powerful tools. Without unification, they have built
small, isolated conclaves in places of great power, but have become
isolated from themselves and the rest of the world. In this day and age,
they guide what portions of the world they can, but often run afowl of
conflicting visions from other conclaves.

### Abyssals

Oblivion, during the Great Wars of the First Age, crept in through the
broken Creation and made its own mockery of an Exalt. These void-touched
mortals take the form of a darkned Solars, for the Sun casts the
greatest, clearest shadows. But any similarity between the two ends past
the surface level. The Abyssals are creatures of the dead, those that
straddle between unlife and the living. They are both the speakers for
the long dead, spirits of vengeance in a broken mortal form, or a
connection to the wisdom of the Ancients.

A contingeant of Abyssals have formed the great Tomb City of Sijan,
which was instrumental in preventing a great many deaths during a vast
Contagion that threatened to rage across the lands.

### Infernals

Before the First Age, there was a war within heave, where the Gods
overthrew their cruel masters. These imprisoned titans, called the Yozi,
rage at the betrayal, and seek to disrupt Creation and Heaven. From
power and pieces of souls stolen from foolish and greedy Exalts, they
have created amalgamation Exalted souls of their own, a mockery of the
God’s Exalted, with whom they have let loose across their Creation.

### Alchemicals

Other Creatures

### Fae

### Dragon Kings

Essence
-------

Essence is the fundamental energy that flows through the world, all
creatures, and mortals—an energy that Exalts are naturally able to wield
to their advantage.

A character’s ability to manipulate and channel the energies of the
world are measured in **Motes** of **Essence**, a pool of points that is
immediately spent for supernatural effects, and slowly regains over
time.

Motes of Essence regain 1 per Hour when the character is taking explicit
action to rest, such as sleeping, playing games, or participating in
(relatively) stress-free activities that they enjoy.

The entire Mote Pool regains after a full night’s of rest, regardless of
how large the pool is.

The mote pool will increase with the character’s **Essence**, which is a
measure of how in tune the character is with the flows of energy through
and surrounding them. This Rating will increase automatically as the
character accrues xp.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Is it rest if I…</strong></p>
<p>If an activity has any dual purpose or gains advantage (aside from the passage of time), it is not considered rest.</p>
<p>A character may play a game to relax, but using a game to strategize a battle plan is not. Talking jovially (or in commiseration) with fellows is relaxing, while trying to convince friends to join in a plan is not.</p>
<p>This regeneration rule is intended to encourage roleplaying moments of respite, not to force constant calculations and bookkeeping for the Storyteller.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Anima

Exalts are not limited to just their own personal Mote Pool as a source
of their powers. The drive of action and movement will spur them to
greater and greater heights. This movement of power is represented as
*Anima*, a type of Essence Flow that is ultimately more fleeting, but
brimming with possibilities.

Anima fades away if it is not used—If the Exalt engages in rest,
regaining motes, their accumulated Anima dissipates—you can only be
“brimming with energy” for so long.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Gain Anima</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Critical Roll</strong></td>
<td>2 Anima for a roll of 8 Successes or more.<br />
If the roll is 12+, gain 4 Anima.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Stunt/Roleplay</strong></td>
<td>2 Anima for great stunts and/or roleplay.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Build Power</strong></td>
<td>1 Anima per 2 Successes</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### 

####  Using Anima

Anima may be used for:

-   Exalt/Caste Anima Abilities

-   Empowering more powerful Charms and Powers

-   Fueling a character’s **Strife**—their narrative power that expands
    past the rules.

As well, Anima may always be used in place of motes, making sure that an
Exalt is never without power. (1 Anima per 1 Mote),

#### Build Power

During heated moments, such as in Combat or Encounters, the Exalt takes
a moment to stoke their internal flames, drawing essence from the world
around them.

The Player describes how the Character focuses themselves, and rolls the
appropriate (Attribute + Ability), gaining a point of Anima for ever 2
successes rolled. (The Critical Roll Anima bonus does *not* apply on
this roll.)

Descriptions of Build Power can truly be anything. A Dawn Solar may find
solace in flourishing their weapon in a display of (Dexterity + Melee).
Another may find refuge in their thoughts, looking across others in
recollection with a (Int + Lore) roll.

Building Power encompass a number of thematic actions-- “Preparing for a
devastating blow” or “catching a breather” or “bringing all the clues
together in the mind.” It is intended to narratively reflect be the calm
before a very, very explosive storm of power and action.

For this reason, Build Power *cannot* have another mechanical
purpose—you cannot intimidate combatants with a Build Power action;
though having the scene or even unimportant characters *reacting* to the
event is always encouraged.

#### Narrative scope

Since Anima fades away so quickly, Anima need not be tracked during
slower, more narrative portions of the game. Instead, use of Anima can
be allowed through taking extra time on their actions: roughly **5
minutes per Anima** expended.

### Anima Banner

As an Exalt gathers energy, their souls become suffused with crackling
energy, inflaming it into the seen world in a glorious expression.

Ultimately the Anima Banner is an *Aesthetic* matter—one used for Stunts
and descriptions.

When using their powers, the Exalted is bathed in their power, the
crackling energies surrounding them and forming into a unique expression
of their soul—the more power used. First, they crackle with subtle
energies across their skin. Then, their Exaltation iconography
shows—often a Caste Mark on their forehead. Finally, they erupt in their
glorious fire, their body suffused in energy and their personal symbols
visible to all around them.

The Exalt may choose to consciously hide it, if in situations where
flaring their banner would be untoward. Hiding the anima banner requires
*dedicated* concentration.

Excellencies
------------

Exalts aren’t restricted to simply accepting the roll that is given to
them. When they need to, they may activate their Exalt-specific
Excellency to push their roll further than they thought they could, both
before they perform the roll, or after the roll (and all power effects)
have been finalized.

For example, a Solar will be able to add their Ability Ranks as a number
of Successes to their roll, turning what is a certain failure into a
success.

However, this does not come without a cost. The character is straining
themselves beyond their mortal bonds, and so will gain a point of
[Limit](#limit).

The Great Curse
---------------

Exaltation is a great and wondrous blessing from the Gods, but with it
comes a great and terrible Curse. Perhaps, as the ancient and lost
stories speak, the slain Enemies of the Gods lay this Curse upon their
servants as a last, spiteful word in their dying breath. Or perhaps it
is simply inalienable nature of man, exemplified and given root in
power.

Regardless of its source, every Exalt carries with them the Great Curse,
an aggrandized character flaw that can interrupt and sabotage a
character’s well meaning in spite of their better nature.

Each individual Exaltation book details their Great Curse, but it is
important to know that these are all *suggestions*. So long as a
character has a flaw that affects their decision, it is an acceptable
Great Curse. Custom descriptions should always include three aspects:
what the flaw exposes in the character, what triggers the flaw, and what
the character will (most likely) do when they enter a Limit Break.

-   **Solars** suffer from their own Ego. They are those that tirelessly
    seek greatness and perfection, and may find others or even
    themselves not up to the standards they desire.

-   **Lunars** suffer from being trapped between worlds and are
    conflicted by the unknown. Are they man or beast? A part of society
    or apart from it? Their form is constantly shifting, so who are they
    really?

-   **Abyssals** have a portion of their self consumed by the void:
    something that is lost and that can never be reclaimed. It may be
    their name and relations; their lost vitality; a loss of emotion and
    feeling.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fine Tuning Limit Gain</strong></p>
<p>Limit Gain should always be controlled by the <em>Player</em>, not the Storyteller. While you may setup the situations, it is ultimately up to the Player to decide how their character reacts—including if and when they gain Limit.</p>
<p>Some Players will not want to gain Limit at all, others will enjoy pushing their characters back and forth constantly. Both are valid so long as they are having fun.</p>
<p>That said, the rule of thumb should be to average about 2 limit per session. If more or less, talk with your Player to see if gaining limit is happening too much or little for their preference.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Limit

The stress and wear of an Exalt’s life will build and press upon them,
eventually driving them to a breaking point. This is represented by
Limit Points.

A Character gains 1 limit point by:

-   Activating their Excellency

-   Encountering the limit trigger they have detailed as part of the
    Great Curse.

-   Working against one of their Intimacies.

Limit Points represent how strained the Exalt is—how much wear and tear
their psyche and soul is under. The character starts at 0, not being
stressed, and can raise up to 10, a level of duress which they cannot
stand anymore, at which point they will be forced Limit Break.

#### Breaking Early

When a character is particularly stressed, such as by being defeated,
having their goals turned against them, their Intimacies being credibly
threatened, or any other event the Player deems “anguishing,” they may
see if the character Limit Breaks early.

**Roll a 1d10.** If the result is equal to or higher than their current
Limit, the character keeps it together. While they might be perturbed,
hurt, otherwise emotionally compromised, they retain full faculty of
their mind and actions. However, if they roll under their limit, they
prematurely snap.

The Player, knowing their character better than any at the table, may
forgo the roll altogether and simply decide their character snaps.
Remember, this should highlight the character’s flaws, and how it can
impact and impede the character’s own goals!

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Calming Effect of Time</strong></p>
<p>Limit resets after a Limit Break, which is the main. However, long spans of rest, meditation, and peace may ease the Exalt down from their stressed life.</p>
<p>So long as the time breaks are particularly restful, the Exalt may lose 1 Limit per week.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Limit Break

When a character **Limit Breaks,** they lose all perspective on anything
that does not align with their **Great Curse** and will make active and
considered effort to fulfill it, regardless of the consequences.

A character Limit Breaking does not lose their faculties, nor do they
forget their Intimacies—but those are simply *secondary* to their Great
Curse. Often they will use convoluted and strange reasoning to justify
their actions.

A Limit Break lasts for an entire scene. Only performing a grave offense
against their own deeply-held Intimacies would be enough to snap the
character out of their actions prematurely.

At the end of a Limit Break, reset Limit to 0.

During a Limit Break, the character does not gain any limit—even from
activating their Excellencies. This effectively grants them **free use
of the Excellency for the entire scene**, though it will still raise
their anima level.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Ticking Time Bomb</strong></p>
<p>There will be occasions when a character enters Limit Break, but turning it into a Limit Break Scene just doesn’t fit—it occurred during an otherwise lighthearted scene, or when the Exalt is in the middle of nowhere on their own, or the scene was just wrapping up.</p>
<p>If this occurs, with both the Storyteller and Player in agreement, the Character can postpone the Limit Break to a more appropriate scene—just don’t wait <em>too</em> long.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Attributes
----------

Attributes are a character’s raw, innate skills. They represent the
capacity and limitations of the body, mind, and soul. Attributes may be
trained and expanded on, but often take quite a bit of time and effort
to do so which is represented by their experience costs.

All Attributes start at Rating One, and may reach up to Rating Five.
There is nothing, save death, that can decrease a character’s Attribute
below One.

### Strength

*Physical Force*

Strength represents both the raw muscular strength a character contains,
as well as the intuition and practice to use it effectively.

### Dexterity

*Physical Finesse*

Dexterity is the fine control, reflexes, and agility a character has
over their own body

###  Charisma

*Social Force*

Charisma is a measure of how a character can outwardly express
themselves to others through active communication.

### Insight

*Social Finesse*

Insight is a measure of how a character can understand others by
observing their actions, words, and expressions. A character with high
Insight would be able to correctly guess and understand an other’s
motivation to predict their next actions—as well as manipulate them.

###  Intelligence

*Mental Force*

Intelligence is a measure of how a character can think logically,
organize thoughts, absorb information, and connect together disparate
pieces of information.

### Wits

*Mental Finesse*

Wits is a measure of intuition, common sense, and fast-thinking.
Whenever a character needs to react quickly, come up with a clever quip,
or intuit something with their “Street-Smarts,” they will use Wits.

Abilities
---------

Abilities are skills that have been honed, trained, and developed
through education and experience. Abilities range from Zero (0) to Five
(5).

**Natural** Abilities are those that any mortal (and thus Exalt) has the
capacity learn, train, and perform actions with. Characters may always
roll with a Natural Ability, even if they have 0 in the rating.

Martial

### Archery

Mastery of physical weapons that deal damage through projectiles. Covers
all weapons that have a launcher and projectiles, ranging from bows and
arrows to slings to the exotic flamepiece.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ammunition</p>
<p><em>Exalted</em> does not require the Player to keep track of their character’s ammunition. You only run out when it is dramatically appropriate, as decided by the Player.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Athletics

Athletics is a measure of *physical motion,* and covers anything that
might constitute aerobic exercise.

### Brawl

Mastery of the body, allowing attacks from any part of the limb, ranging
from kicking, punching, tripping, or grappling. While often performed
unarmed, Brawl has a selection of weapons that can be used, such as
brass knuckles.

### Melee

Mastery of the close-quarter weapons, such as swords, axes, or clubs.

### Physique

***Note**: Each point of Physique increases your Health by +1.*

Physique is the measure of fortitude and well-being, strength and
hardiness: the ability to shrug off attacks, poisons, and any
debilitation of the body or mind.

### Thrown

Mastery of physical weapons that deal damage hurling weapons at enemies,
such as knives, spears, and even improvised objects.

Social

### <span class="smallcaps">Bureaucracy</span>

Bureaucracy relates to all matters legal, organizational, and
mercantile.

### Command

Command covers the skills necessary to manage, inspire, and otherwise
direct people, typically in large groups.

### Integrity

Integrity is a measure of how tightly a character can keep to their
convictions, goals, and objectives without being influenced by outside
forces.

### Investigation

Investigation focuses on the ability to search, uncover, or otherwise
procure specific details, often revealing things that others do not want
revealed.

### Performance

Performance is the measure of not only how well a character is in the
technical nature of singing, dancing, or other such artistic expression,
but the ability to convey meaning and thoughts through those actions. A
skilled performer not only knows how to entertain their crowd, but also
knows how to incite that crowd into a frenzied riot should they desire.

### Socialize

Socialization is a way to relate and talk with people, making them feel
heard and personally connected with them.

### Subterfuge

Deception is the art of trickery, manipulation, and physical stealth.
Its masters are adept at getting people to do what they want without
them even realizing an outside influence is even there.

Utility

### Awareness

Awareness is a measure of alertness and impromptu understanding of
events through any and all of the senses.

### Craft

Craft is used to produce, analyze, and repair physical constructs and
moving parts. A crafter knows how to take raw discard material and turn
it into a wondrous, machines intended for mechanical and aesthetic
purposes.

### Lore

***Note:** See the special Action* [**Recall Fact**](#recall-fact)

Lore is both the breadth and depth of understanding in the world,
ranging from geographic knowledge to religion and philosophy.

### Medicine

Medicine is the study of the body and how it operates, spiritually,
mentally, and physically. Those with high Medicine will know how to
treat injuries, gather herbs, and strike at essence flow lines to heal
(or harm) their patient.

### Navigation

Navigation is the ability to traverse terrains—from land, to sea, to
jungle—and come out unscathed and on time. A trained Navigator will know
their hand at reigns, the stern of a ship.

### Stealth

The art of not being seen, from physical stillness to knowing how to
blend into a crowd. Also includes some tricks of the trade, such as
lockpicking.

### Survival

Survival is the ability to tame the wild-lands, ranging from scavenging,
to identifying dangerous animals, as well as how to track others.

Supernatural Abilities
----------------------

**Supernatural** **Abilities** are those that are beyond the reach of
even the most talented mortal. No amount of training or skill can induct
a mortal into a Supernatural Ability-only by special circumstances will
the domain of the Gods be opened to them-such as Exaltation. Even then,
it is often a limited selection.

For example, those chosen to be a Dragon-Blooded are opened up to the
Elemental Abilities of Fire, Water, Air, Earth, and Wood, but are
restricted from the Lunar’s Shapeshifting Ability.

A minimum of Rating One is required to perform any Supernatural Ability,
and it cannot be learned without a specific Merit or Exaltation.

Since Supernatural Abilities are so closely tied with an Exaltation,
Gods, or Creature of Power, most will be detailed in their respective
books. Occult, however, is the only Supernatural Ability that is
available to all Exalts, and even some mortals.

### Occult

Sorcery is the method of twisting, changing, and exploiting the rules of
reality to the practitioner’s favor. The methods of doing so are arcane,
often requiring long, drawn-out rituals to perform correctly.

Occult encompasses many thing, but focuses primarily on Environmental
changes, summoning of demons, and control over the spirits of the world.

All Exalted, and even some mortals, have the potential to learn Occult.
However, they must be Initiated into the arts by some teacher or force.
A Player should be able to point to one of their Merits as a reasonable
source for their tutalage.

#### Uses

Occult, as a raw ability, can be used to sense the flows of essence
around the player, as well as setup low magic rituals which are called
“Thaumaturgies”. Examples include reading tea leaves, laying down a
protective salt circle, or performing an exorcism.

As well, studies in Occult will often give a base level understanding of
the difference between Spirits and otherworldly creatures of
power—though it will always be filtered through a light of what the
practical application is.

#### Restrictions

Occult is a broad skill, one that manipulates the very Essence that life
in Creation relies upon, so it can sometimes be unclear to allow
anything and everything through. So, there are a few guiding
restrictions when using Occult:

-   It takes time. Aside from the most basic uses, Occult is highly
    ritualistic, rarely being able to used in single action. It also
    often may only be done in specific times of the day, or with certain
    reagents.

-   The Essence flows of others cannot be changed or altered without a
    dedicated Power.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Occult Knowledge</p>
<p>Having occult confers a certain base level knowledge about spirits, demons, and other aspects of Creation—however it should be treated as a <em>compliment</em> to Lore, not a replacement.</p>
<p>A general rule of thumb is to think of Occult concerned more with the “practical application” of such knowledge, with Lore focusing more on the historical, cultural, and general knowledge.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Sample Thaumaturgies</strong></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Read Tea Leaves</strong></td>
<td><p>While the stars are visible, spend at least 15 minutes performing a ceremony brewing, drinking and then studying tea.</p>
<p>After which, roll (Int + Occult). If 3+, you may ask the Storyteller a single question about the Fate or Destiny of a character that drank from the tea. The Storyteller must answer truthfully, but may do so cryptically or through riddles.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Unquenchable Flame</strong></td>
<td>Gather and arrange a set of rocks, no wider than the width of a horse, in a geometric pattern favored by Hesiesh, the Dragon of Fire. After striking each stone with either a wooden or steel rod, flame will erupt and burn between the rocks without need of fuel, nor doused by all but the harshest of winds or rain.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Exorcism</strong></td>
<td><p>By chanting, forming ritualistic circles, and performing a concentrated twisting of Essence, the sorcerer can banish a ghost or other underworld creature back to a Shadowlands.</p>
<p>This cannot be done with any unwilling, undefeated creature that has an Essence Rating.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 Custom Abilities
----------------

The provided Abilities are not considered comprehensive or exclusive
list-simply a selection that is expected to be most useful in the
Exalted setting. Creating abilities and charms custom to specific
characters or settings is not only allowed, but it is encouraged!

There are a few guidelines that must be followed when creating a new
ability:

-   An ability must be well-defined. If a couple of words do not
    communicate what the ability is about, and what it encompasses, then
    the theme needs to be refined some more.

-   It cannot be too broad. The provided abilities in the book should be
    the upper-limit on how broad of a theme an ability should be.

-   It cannot fully encompass another ability. There will often be
    overlap between abilities, which is allowed, but the custom ability
    should not simply be an ability and something else.

When creating charms for a custom ability, using and altering existing
charms is perfectly acceptable.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Shared Charms</p>
<p>When making a new ability that has the same design space as an other ability, many of the charms will be exactly the same. A character may use such purchased charm in both abilities, (so long as they meet the minimum ability requirement.) They do not need to purchase the charm twice.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Example Custom Abilities

-   **Drive**. Useful for a modern setting. Involves the natural
    handling of high-speed craft, ranging from finding ways around a
    complicated city to performing daring maneuvers to shake off
    pursuers. Pulls heavily from Navigation.

-   **Firearms**. Useful for a modern setting. In standard Exalted
    setting, firearms are the exception, a rare bauble and interest to
    be found. But in a modern setting, this would supplant the Archery
    ability as the primary ranged ability. Many of the charms would be
    similar.

-   **Cooking**. Typically, this ability is not marked on a character
    sheet, as it does not impact the story much. But if you are a grand
    cook, to such a great extent that you wish to form charms and powers
    around it, it can be its own specialized ability.

 Merits
------

A Merit is any sort of benefit or background that may help the
character, outside of their normal internal powers would grant.

Merits are often intimately tied to a character’s story—they have wealth
because they were born into it—and typically may only be gained or
upgraded during character creation, or through the Projects system
during campaign.

Almost all Merits are location or context-dependent, and so are often
restricted based on the nature of the story campaign.

When you purchase Contacts, for example, you must specify what their
nature is, and their location. i.e. “The assassins of the Eastern
Forests.”

Multiple merits of different locations and types can be purchased.

### Using Merits

Most of the time a Merit is just a statement of fact about your
character, and should simply shape the story with its presence—Followers
will do what you say, wealth backs a bribe attempt with truth, and an
ally will generally be helpful if they can be. A good rule of thumb is
that if the difficulty of the action is less than the rating of the
merit, it simply just happens.

On the rare cases when the outcome is uncertain, an appropriate
\[Attribute + (Ability or Merit rating)\] may be asked for. For example,
you may raise a glorious ancient artifact to prove your worth to a crowd
with \[Composure + Artifact rating\], attempt to convince an ally to do
a dangerous task for you with \[Charisma + Ally\], or know a piece of
obscure Lunar history with \[Intelligence + Fact: Silver Pact Member\]

#### Exhausting Merits

At the storyteller's discretion, a Merit can be exhausted for a period
of time after a large, impactful use of the merit, and be unable to be
used except in limited ways. For example, after a character with Wealth
(4) manages to bribe the Prince of a city into their pocket, the
Storyteller declares that this is a serious use of their Wealth merit,
and that all significant expenditure of their wealth is now tied up into
this one action and must recover.

The Storyteller designates the length of time the merit is exhausted,
though this cannot last longer than a single story.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Loss of Merits</strong></p>
<p>Merits, unlike Powers purchased by the player, are not guaranteed to be protected for the duration of the story.</p>
<p>Temporary restrictions to merits—such as an Ally being unable to help in this situation, even if the merit isn’t exhausted—is explicitly allowed. However, the Storyteller should always be judicious about such decisions.</p>
<p>During dramatic parts of the story—and with coordination between Storyteller and Player, merits can be permanently removed. This may be done through such things as a stunning defeat, or a tragic change in an Ally’s cause.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### General Merits

#### Fact

\(3\)

Facts are simple, undeniable statements about the character that may
help them in their adventures. They are the most free-form of all the
merits, and encompass anything from a description of a character’s
origin to markers of accomplishments.

Facts are typically chosen during character creation, awarded at the end
of a Story, or to mark completion of a significant world Project.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Fact Levels</strong></p>
<p>Facts are set to 3 dots for ease of use—they are significant enough to impact the setting significantly, but not world changing. It is intended to be a “rule of thumb” for what should be written on the character sheet.</p>
<p>If there is a need for a higher or lower merit to be written down, it becomes its own custom merit—which is perfectly acceptable.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Natural Merits

#### Backing 

The Character is an official in an organization. Their rating represents
how much organizational power the character has.

The Character may instruct subordinates to Perform a Task without
question, so long as it is in line with the goals and morals of the
organization.

Backing 2 would either represent being the head of a local organization,
or the leader of a local chapter of a global organization, wheras
Backing 5 would represent being the head of a global organization of
great note.

#### Bond

***Special Note**: Bonded individuals must each have the Bond merit,
though the level does not need to be the same.*

Your soul has been entwined with another, uniting your Destinies. The
character instinctively knows if their Bond is in danger, and the
general direction they are in.

Influence to directly harm, endanger, or otherwise disadvantage their
Bond is treated as Unacceptable Influence. This may be used reflexively.

#### Contacts 

You have a network of contacts in a given location and class of society
willing to give you information. So long as you are in a location of
your contacts, there’s always someone with a friendly face, or who knows
someone who knows something.

#### Cult

The Character is a leader and/or target of worship for a religious cult.

*Disadvantage:* The cult requires periodic guidance and attention. As
well, it is often an unwelcome influence and potential political hazard.

#### Wealth

Wealth is a renewable source of money. A character with any source of
Wealth needs not worry for basic necessities or sustenance, and may
always purchase a place to rest.

Targets can be paid (or bribed) to Perform a Task without needing a roll
or any Social Influence. Some characters may refuse this offer, or even
be offended by it.

#### Ally

Allies are individuals, groups, or organizations that a character may
call upon to aid them in their endeavors—proven to be an asset.

Allies are not at the whim and mercy of the character—they have their
own lives and concerns to deal with, but they can be assumed to not
willingly or knowingly hurt the player character.

The Rating of Allies represents both the scale and influence of the
ally: Rating 1 would be a competent, but still mortal--guard. Rating 3
would be an Exalt or a medium spanning organization. Rating 5 would be a
high-rating God or an organization such as the Guild.

#### Artifact

**(2-5)**

Artifacts are items that contain wondrous, supernatural effects upon the
world. Artifacts typically have some sort of inherent supernatural
usefulness to them that is **immediately available** on purchase of the
artifact.

Evocations are Powers the artifact contains that must be awakened by
**additionally** purchasing Evocations with xp.

Rating 2 Artifacts are minor wonders: they have some sort of inherent
supernatural usefulness, such as a water skin inlaid with jade that
filters and purifies all water within. Rating 2 Artifacts have **no**
Evocations.

Rating 3 Artifacts may have a Lesser Evocation

Rating 4 Artifacts may have 2 Evocations, and have a Greater Evocation.

Rating 5 Artifacts have up to 3 Evocations, 2 Greater Evocations, and 1
Capstone Evocation.

####  Language

(1-2)

Each purchase of this merit represents a new language the Player
Character has learned to speak, read, and write in.

**Note**: All Characters start with 2 Languages, typically their Local
Tongue, and the trade Language Riverspeak.

1.  **Standard Language**:

    -   Specific **local** tongue.

    -   The Trade Language, **Rivertongue** (if not already known)

    -   **Directional Language**: While not a true language in itself, a
        Directional Language is a collection of general speech patterns
        and dialects that would fit as “close enough” with the local
        tongue of anybody living in the respective Cardinal Directions
        (Air, Wood, Fire, Water) to communicate most thing.

    -   **High Realm**, what is spoken by the elite in the center of the
        Realm. (Realm has completely taken over and eliminated
        Earthtongue).

        *Note: **“**Common” is relative to the character, and depends on
        the setting. A character from Autochthonia would find
        Autochthonian common, after all.*

<!-- -->

1.  **Uncommon Language:**

    -   **Old Realm**, which is what most First Age scrolls are written
        in, and still spoken by many Gods and Spirits.

    -   **Dragontongue**, the language of the Shogunate, enforced to be
        the common language before the Realm came to existence. Some
        traditional sects of mortals still hold onto this tradition.

    -   **Malfean**, a terrible tongue spoken only by demons.

    -   **Autochthonian,** A tongue spoken from those trapped inside the
        body of the great Maker.

###  Special Merits

#### Master Stylist 

\(3\) Mortal-Only

Allows a mortal to purchase Techniques of a specific Style, (excluding
Greater Techniques), and grants them a **3** mote pool that may only be
used on the style’s Techniques.

A Mortal may learn this merit on their own, though it is rare.

#### Mutation

A mutation represents any non-standard body configuration that may be
useful to the character. This is a boon (or curse, depending on
attitudes), is granted by sourcerous workings, the gods, and the eddies
of the dangerous Wyld.

|                      |          |                                                                                                                            |
|----------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Sample Mutations** |          |                                                                                                                            |
| **Name**             | **Cost** | **Description**                                                                                                            |
| **Toxin Resistance** | 1        | You can ignore small levels of a specified class of toxin, and gain a Moderate Advantage when resisting larger quantities. |
| **Natural Armor**    | 1        | You have scales, leather, or other natural armor. You are never without your armor.                                        |
| **Tail**             | 1        | You have a tail, which can be used as a limited-dexterity appendage.                                                       |
| **Fins**             | 2        | You may move normally through water. Your fins may be hidden or disguised.                                                 |
| **Wings**            | 2        | You may fly through the air. Your wings cannot be hidden.                                                                  |
| **Wings (Hideable)** | 3        | You may fly through the air. Your wings can be hidden at any time.                                                         |
| **Extra Limbs**      | 3        | You have another pair of dexterous arms and hands (or legs or tentacles)                                                   |

### Supernatural Merits

Most Supernatural Merits require *Storyteller Approval* to purchase, or
to grant to followers.

#### Endowment

(3-5)

Gain access to a Supernatural Ability normally outside your purview.
This must be given as a boon from a supernatural entity that already has
access to that Supernatural Ability.

Mortal Sorcerers must have this merit to access Sorcery or Necromancy.

Endowment grants access to a mote pool of 10 if the character does not
have one. This mote pool may only be used for this specific Endowment.

If a Mortal Exalts with this merit and that supernatural ability is
granted to them, they are refunded the merit costs.

**3**—Use of the Ability, but restricted in some way: For example:
Shapeshifting may be granted, but only into only one creature.

**4—**Use of the Ability, restricted in some way. In addition, they may
purchase Lesser Charms.

**5—**Use of the Ability in its entirety and the ability to purchase
Charms normally.

The System
==========

<span class="smallcaps">Part 3</span>

Structure
---------

The system of Exalted Reincarnated consists of the base Narrative
System, Character Abilities, and three important subsystems: Encounters,
Combat, and Projects.

### Narrative System

The **Base Narrative System** covers the base interactions of the game,
and will most likely span the majority of time spent. It consists of
Action Rolls, Character Powers, as well as detailing out certain
specific circumstances that might come up, such as group rolls.

For the most part, the Base Narrative System is intended to provide
tools to quickly resolve what happens in response to roleplay with a
simple roll—something to verify that the characters can actually do what
they say they are doing.

These are all intended to be tools—something you can pick up and put
down as needed. Do not feel bound to use them if they are not needed.

### Encounters

The **Encounter** subsystem is a framework that the Storyteller can use
to provide twists, turns, and satisfying motion for dramatic scenes,
ranging from courtrooms to mental mazes to the intricate dance of social
maneuvering.

The Encounter subsystem is the lightest of the systems, intended to be
flexible enough to handle a myriad of possibilities while still
retaining structure and predictability.

### Combat

While a conflict could be determined by a simple opposed roll, it is
rarely satisfying to do so. The **Combat** subsystem is provided for
scenes where violence must be performed in glorious battle.

It is the most mechanically involved of the subsystems, in order to give
Players the satisfaction of performing shifting tactics and powerful
maneuvers that only the Exalted are capable of performing—while not
getting bogged down in endless minutia.

### Projects

Sometimes there are great stretches of times that pass by, that are not
directly played. Yet the Exalted are constantly busy, creatures of
action and motion even if there is not a direct outward change.

The **Project** subsystem details how to handle timeskips, background
tasks, and how the Exalt changes the world around them when the world
isn’t directly falling apart.

 Core Mechanics
--------------

### Action Rolls

Whenever an Exalt attempts something that is dangerous, uncertain, or
momentous, the Player at the table will perform an *Action Roll* to
check that the action can be performed.

Exalted uses a *dice pool* system, where the Player gathers a number of
d10’s (ten-sided dice) equal to their character’s relevant Attribute and
Ability scores. For example, if the character was attempting to scale a
cliff, they would gather a combination of their *Attribute: Strength
(4)* and *Ability: Athletics (2)* dice together into their Dice Pool.
(6, in this case).

Then, with their full Dice Pool, they roll. For each die face that is
showing the target number: **(7)** or higher, they gain one success on
the action. If the number of successes is higher than the difficulty of
the action, the character succeeds.

For example, examine the results of six rolled dice:

**{1, 3, 4, 7, 9, 9}**

This would count as 3 successes, as follows:

**{0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1}**

If the difficulty of the action was **3** or less, the character would
succeed on their action. The values of 1, 3, and 4 are not, and do not
affect the roll in any way.

If a die face shows up as the value **(10)**, the die generates not one
(1), but *two (2)* successes, allowing for critical successes beyond the
character’s normal limit.

If the roll had instead been:

**{1, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10}**

This would count as (4) successes:

**{0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 2}**

### When to call for a roll

An Action Roll should only be called for by the Storyteller when the
result of a character’s action is *uncertain*. Don’t call for a roll if
a task is either guaranteed to succeed or to fail—one of easiest traps
to fall into as a Storyteller is to call for a roll expecting it to
succeed or not, and then scrambling to adapt because the dice did
something unexpected.

### Retrying Rolls

Once a roll has been decided, a Player cannot simply try the action
again—it is assumed that the character has already approached the issue
from multiple different angles before truly failing in the roll. For
example, their failed barter included multiple tiers of money that they
were willing to part with.

Only through powers like a Charm, or by a dramatic change of the scene
is a re-roll allowed—for example, the marketplace erupting in a great
conflict, convincing the merchant that they need to sell and leave as
quickly as possible.

### Determining Difficulty

*Before a roll is performed*, the Storyteller should determine the
**Difficulty** of the roll—the number of successes that the roll must
match or exceed for the action to be considered a success. Here is a
guiding scale for choosing difficulties:

-   **Difficulty 1 (Normal)  
    **This task is challenging to a mere mortal, but an Exalted Hero is
    more than likely going to pass it: though there is still a
    reasonable risk of failing. Picking a lock, calming an irate
    guardsman, or basic first aid would fall under this category.

-   **Difficulty 3 (Typical)**- A mortal will find this to be a
    difficult or challenging task, but an Exalt will most likely be able
    to pass it with some effort.

-   **Difficulty 5** **(Difficult)**- Tasks which are daunting fall in
    this category—climbing a sheer cliff in winds, charming a staunch
    Dynast with sweet words, or avoiding the bite of a venomous beast.

-   **Difficulty 7 (Challenging)**- Tasks which should be
    near-impossible for any mortal. Such as noticing things in pitch
    darkness, or landing on a precise spot hundreds of feet below.

-   **Difficulty 9 (Impossible)**- Tasks a mortal could not possibly do,
    no matter the circumstances. Running straight up a building, leaping
    across a chasm unassisted, or keeping a patient alive without a
    heart for hours at a time with their bare hands.

### What to Roll?

A roll should be called *in response* to Player actions, and as a way to
*represent* what is happening in the action—this is a role-playing game
after all!

The Attribute and Ability should be chosen based on what most represents
the action the Player’s character is described as doing.

For example, if a character was charming a crowd through song, it would
be *Charisma* and *Performance*.

A character’s Attribute represents the character’s general skills and
method, whether it is primarily a *Physical, Social,* or *Mental*
action, and if they are performing the action that action through
*Force,* or *Finesse*. The six Attributes are:

-   **Strength** (Physical Force)

-   **Dexterity** (Physical Finesse)

-   **Charisma** (Social Force)

-   **Insight** (Social Finesse)

-   **Intelligence** (Mental Force)

-   **Wits** (Mental Finesse)

Abilities are *specific* skills relevant to the situation, such as
*Lore* for knowledge of history, or *Craft* for the creation of material
goods. A full description and list of Abilities may be found in the
[Attributes and Abilities](#Attributes_and_Abilities) chapter.

It is also perfectly acceptable to offer a selection of multiple
different Abilities that might match the action, with the Player having
the choice between them.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Failing Forward</strong></p>
<p>In a high-powered setting such as Exalted, properly handling failure is incredibly important. You, as the Storyteller, are there to make sure that the story keeps moving forward, even if the Players are unable to do so.</p>
<p>It is often helpful to see a failed roll as an opportunity for you to move the plot in a way that the Player characters wouldn’t want, rather than simply not succeeding.</p>
<p>When a Player Character fails on an action, there are a few general paths that you may choose to employ:</p>
<p>1. <em>A simple failure</em>—the character don’t do the action, the story continues. Typically you pick this path when the players already know of different paths they may take. Sometimes letting your players step back and reanalyze their approach is a decent option. You should not pick this option if it would bring the momentum of the scene to a crashing halt.</p>
<p>2. <em>A bargained success—</em>the character manages to squeeze through a victory, but at a great cost. They opened the doors like the wanted, but they alerted everyone to their actions. You, as the Storyteller, are allowed to take a hard action against the player characters when this happens. Remember: you are not there to punish the players, but to set up great adversity and challenges!</p>
<p>3. <em>“No, but...”</em>—If players have heavily invested in an action, and it just doesn’t work out because of bad luck, don’t give them <em>nothing</em>. Sure, they failed at the task they were intending, but another pathway opens. Maybe they failed to convince the Queen of their plight, but the Prince overheard and wishes to speak to them. Be judicious of choosing this option, as overuse may make your game feel consequence-free.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 Advantages and Disadvantages
----------------------------

The difficulty of an action can be modified by various conditions,
whether it be environmental, helpful, or antagonistic. These should be
provided by the Storyteller as deemed appropriate to the narrative.

By default, Advantages and Disadvantages are written in terms of
**dice** available for the character to roll: (+2/-2 dice). Since this
is the default, the “dice” moniker is often dropped—if a power ever
simply says “+2”, it means to dice.

Whenever a Modifier affects a static value, such as Resolve or
Difficulty, you should **take the average**, rounding up. +1 or +2 dice
is +1 to Resolve, for example. Some powers will directly reference
Static Value or Difficulty modifiers, instead of dice.

### Assigning Modifiers

Modifiers can be granted from any source, such as any powers, the
environment, or even the mental condition of the character taking the
action.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Advantage/Disadvantage</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Dice</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Difficulty</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Minor</td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>±1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>±0</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Moderate</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>±2</td>
<td>±1</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Major</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>±4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>±2</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Any **Modifier** should be something significant to the scene—something
that would perturb even an Exalt, and you should not concern yourself
with keeping track of anything and everything that *could* be a
modifier. Light rain, while thematic and aesthetic, would not be enough
to affect the athletics skill of the Exalt.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Natural Modifiers and Difficulty</p>
<p>Remember that Difficulty has its own inbuilt assumptions—many difficulties are set because they are a particular “base” level of challenge with a specific disadvantage: picking a difficult lock (3) vs. picking a difficult lock while blindfolded in a hurricane (9).</p>
<p>If a character uses a charm or power to dismiss part of that difficulty—removing all impairments caused by weather— it is the same as granting them an equivalent Advantage!</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 Stunting
--------

The setting of Exalted encourages wild, ambitious, and perhaps dangerous
actions of the characters. When a player describes their character doing
their action in a fun and creative way, the Storyteller should reward
them by letting the action proceed! If a character swings from a
chandelier in order to drop down on top of an enemy, let them do so!

Stunts should operate off of the “Rule of Cool,” and may bend the rules
a bit, both of reality and the game—such as falling great distances to
land perfectly in a pose with no damage. Nobody need concern themselves
with the useless physics of such a maneuver.

If the Stunt is particularly impressive consider rewarding the Player
with [2 Anima](#anima).

Stunts also do not need to be tied to specific actions. If, as a
Storyteller, you find a scene or particular interaction to be moving,
reward the players with Anima.

 Strife
------

The world of Creation will push even the mighty Exalted to the brink,
and in those moments of desperation, forcing them to delve into reserves
they did not know they had—and can rarely replicate when needed. This
moment is called a **Strife**.

Strife is a powerful tool for Player Characters to change the world
around them.

By spending **3 Anima** and performing a Stunt, the Player may:

-   Reuse any limited-use Power.

-   Use a Power they have not purchased, but would otherwise qualify
    for. (i.e. At Essence 1, you may choose any Lesser Charm of your
    Exalt. At Essence 3, any Lesser or Greater, etc.)

    -   If the Power you choose has a mote cost higher than **3**, you
        must instead pay the difference in motes.  
        (e.g. if a chosen charm costs 4 motes, using that charm as a
        Strife requires 3 anima, 1 mote.)

-   Invent a Charm-like Effect. The Player should feel free to dictate
    how they use their powers in a custom-tailored way for the
    situation, though this does require Storyteller approval to make
    sure it doesn’t *directly* solve the problem of the scene.

### Strife Guidelines

When using a Strife, the action should simply happen without a roll. So
long as a character *should* be able to do something, and it is *cool*
for them to do so, it *does.* In this way, it can be thought of as a
more powerful Stunt.

There are a few guiding restrictions to keep in mind with Strifes, which
should

-   Other character’s actions cannot be dictated: only those under
    control of the Player’s.

-   The Action cannot *directly* solve the scene; it can only assist and
    guide it.

-   The Action should flow naturally from the character—a Solar cannot
    suddenly shapeshift, for example.

**Example**

######### The Archer turns from the Dragonblood threatening her and focusing her essence into a point on their arrow. With a sharp hiss of air, she lets it loose into the nearest mountain, watching as the arrow explodes in an impressive show of Anima. The mountain rumbles as the snow dislodges, causing the newly-fallen snow to groan, rumble, and then start cascading into a deadly avalanche which rushes into the passage, sealing it and cutting off the dynasts reinforcements.

“I’m going to use my archery to cause an avalanche”. it changes the
environment, stopping any reinforcements—removing the time limit on the
challenge, but not destroying their enemy. It assists the Player and
their scene greatly, but does not solve it.

Special Actions 
---------------

Most rolls are simple: the Player dictates what they are intending to
do, and the Storyteller tells them which (Attribute + Ability) to roll
and how much the difficulty will be.

However, there are a few specific situations that have special rules:

### Teamwork

Whenever a character uses their action to assist another, they may grant
a Moderate Advantage to another (+2 dice/+1 Difficulty) without the need
to roll.

If two people teamwork the same target, they may bump it up to a Major
Advantage (+4 dice/+2 Diff.), but no more than that is allowed.

### Contested Actions

Certain actions are contested between abilities of two or more
characters, rather than a simple difficulty.

In this case, all characters simply roll their appropriate Dice Pool,
and compare who got the highest number of Successes.

#### Taking the Average

To speed things along, the Storyteller is encouraged to take the
*average* number, rounded down, of the NPC’s dice pool. If they have 4-5
dice, simply state that they get got 2 successes and move on.

The exception to this guidance are important characters, such as rivals
or foes of great challenge.

######### There are two characters in the scene: a guard and a thief. The guard is keeping watch, and the thief is attempting to sneak past them. The dice pool for the player-controlled thief would be Dexterity + Stealth.

######### Since this is a NPC, and there are no dice-affecting powers active, the storyteller simply takes the average: (Wits + Awareness)/2, which turns out to be 3. Should the thief match or surpass that difficulty, they successfully sneak past.

### Group Rolls

If a *group* of people must all succeed on the *same* action—such as
sneaking—those character who exceed the difficulty may donate any extra
successes to their less fortunate group mates at a rate of *2 successes
given* per *1 successes received.* This is a special form of automatic
Teamwork.

So, if a group trying to succeed at a difficulty 3 check rolls 7, 3, and
1, the Player that rolled 7 would be able to give up their 4 extra
successes to give the last Player 2 successes.

###  Recall Fact

You have two options when determining Facts about the world:

1.  Ask the Storyteller a question.

<!-- -->

1.  Introduce a fact that your character “knows” about the world. This
    must not contradict the established setting in your game. (The
    Storyteller may veto a fact.)

Once you have stated your goal, the Storyteller determines the
difficulty of remembering that fact, which you roll against as normal.
If successful, the Storyteller must answer the question truthfully, or
note the introduced fact as part of reality.

Typically, this roll is (Intelligence + Lore), but it need not be. You
may use any Ability to know things related to that ability—such as using
*Archery* to recall facts of a famous archer. Lore simply is the Ability
that has no restrictions on use.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>The Non-Omniscient Scholar</strong></p>
<p>You are able to recall <em>facts</em>, not <em>truths</em>. “I want to know if Solars are actually Anathema” is not an appropriate use for Lore, but “Have Solars always been depicted as Anathema?” would be.</p>
<p>As well, facts known by a character are going to be <em>highly biased</em> depending on their backstory. As a Storyteller, don’t be afraid to give out advantages/disadvantages! A Dynastic monk will have <em>very different</em> sources of information than, say a Sidereal.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Read Intentions/Intimacy

Reading Intentions is a **Reflexive** Action.

When a character desires to understand another, they may attempt to read
the Intentions based on their actions, though this must be in *response*
to their target’s actions—you can’t simply read intentions of a
character who is doing nothing!

On a successful roll against a difficulty set by the Storyteller, as
dictated by the target’s social grace, the Player may ask a question to
the Storyteller about the target and the *character’s action*, ranging
from: “Who are they,” “What are they here (in the scene) for?” “Where
are they going?” “Do they intend me harm?”

The Storyteller is obligated to respond *truthfully* to the chosen
question, though it may be cryptic.

All Players may attempt the roll, but only the highest-roll gets to ask
the question.

###  Influence Intimacy

You may grant or *suppress* Intimacies in targets. Intimacy changes made
this way are temporary, fading away after a couple of hours without
reinforcement.

#### Emotion

Instead of a particular Intimacy, the character may choose to suppress
or inflame an *emotion*. This may have unpredictable effects. This may
be useful when targeting a disparate crowd, or if specific intimacies
are not known.

Emotions are always treated as a Moderate Modifier, and so only gain
+/-1 Resolve, compared to a full Intimacy.

### Perform Task

The character attempts to get another to perform a task on their behalf.

**Note:** Serious and Life-Changing Tasks will often require a full
Scene to occur before the roll may be performed—you can’t simply walk in
and change a person’s life! The rolls provided are for use for minor
characters and unimportant scenes. For more dramatic scenes, see
[Encounters](#Encounters). (If the final roll involves a “Perform Task”
ask, the resolve bonus is not applied—the act of performing the
encounter wears down the Resolve over the course of the scene.

-   **Inconvenient task**  
    There is at most mild danger, opposition, or time devoted to this
    task. At most the task will take a few hours—maybe a day.

-   **Serious Task  
    ***(+2 Resolve) Must Leverage an Emotion or Intimacy to attempt.*

    There may be lasting repercussions to performing the task, ranging
    from physical to social. The task may take days to weeks to
    complete.

-   **Life-Changing** **Task  
    ***(+4 Resolve) Must leverage an Intimacy to attempt.*

    Their lives may be permanently altered by the task, running even the
    risk of death. Even embarking on the task will have serious
    consequences.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Players on the Defensive</p>
<p>The Player Characters are the main characters of the story, not NPCs.</p>
<p>When on the defensive from Social Actions, the Player still controls how the character acts in response to the roll, not the Storyteller. This is especially relevant for the “Perform Task” Action—the Player is free to interpret how and when they perform this task—they may be convinced that they need to help another character, but it will not override their free-will to do so.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**<span class="smallcaps">Social Interactions</span>**
------------------------------------------------------

Social actions are dependent on how they are approached. Using an
inappropriate action for a desired outcome will not work (no roll
required) or at least have severe penalties applied.

For example, no matter how well you roll, you cannot threaten someone
into gaining a positive intimacy towards you.

### Intimacies

All characters have various ideals, desires, and loved ones. An Intimacy
is a representation of their core being, who the person is—for better or
for worse.

An *Intimacy* is a step above a person’s natural likes and dislikes: it
is some aspect that defines them in some way.

Intimacies should be specific and close to your character’s definition
and goals:

-   “Hatred of the Realm’s Slavery Trade”

-   “Trust that inner enlightenment will bring about external good”

Intimacies are both a boon and a bane to characters—they have a
resistance to any social influence that runs contrary to that Intimacy.
However, those same Intimacies may be used to pull the character into
increasingly difficult tasks.

Whenever a character is confronted with something that *tugs* at their
intimacy—such as a convincing argument that the proposed action will
help them protect their family, they take a (-2) Resolve. However, if it
runs *counter* to their Intimacy, such as their deep-held believe to not
harm others, they gain (+2) Resolve.

Multiple Intimacies can be in play at the same time.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Assumed Intimacies</strong></p>
<p>There are common intimacies to all mortal kinds that don’t need to be explicitly written down, such as the Desire for Safety and Health, and the Fear of Death.</p>
<p>The list of Intimacies written for a character should only be written down if they are notable in their strength—or in the absence.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Temporary Intimacies

Minor, or *temporary* Intimacies are those present for just a short
time, often in response to something that has occurred in the
scene—ranging from something as large as great threat to the city
appearing, or from something more subtle as Social Influence to incite
an emotion.

Minor Intimacies are transitory—and not quite as strong as deeply held
beliefs, conferring (+/-1 Resolve). However, their effects can still be
quite strong on a large scale, and have resulted in societal upheaval
and market panics.

### Unacceptable Influence

There are certain actions and requests that a character will refuse to
do, regardless of how convincing, persuasive, or manipulative an Exalt
is, they will not do it. Unacceptable Influence protects those actions
that the character considered antithetical to their very nature, such as
betraying loyal causes, violating self preservation, or harming those
dearly loved.

Players, as they know their characters much better than the Storyteller,
reserve the sole right to declare if Influence is *Unacceptable*—though
they should justify it to the rest of the group.

### Changing Intimacies

At the completion of every **Story,** both the Players and the
Storyteller should reevaluate their respective characters and readjust
Intimacies as appropriate to reflect what has happened in the Story.

They may gain, or lose Intimacies as they see fit, though they should
have at least three and at most five.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Respect Your Group</strong></p>
<p>Throughout history people have committed horrific acts against each other—acts which still continue to this day. You may desire to show it as a proper challenge to overcome, to the levels that a character will sink to—even so called heroes. That said:</p>
<p><strong>No Person should ever feel uncomfortable at the table.<br />
</strong></p>
<p>At the end of the day, this is a game that you and your friends are playing in modern times. Showcasing horrors of the past and the casual atrocities people have done to each other is a decision <em>you</em> are making right now.</p>
<p>Any Player (including the Storyteller) should be allowed to raise their concerns about scenes, direction of story, or other such aspects of the game, and their concern should be respected without question. Move the theme aside and don’t bring it up again.</p>
<p>A good tool to <em>minimize</em> these concerns is to have a “Session 0”, where all Players discuss what themes they expect out of a game, and what to avoid. However, this should not be seen as a substitute for listening to your Players at the moment. Often, they will not know what bothered them until it comes up.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Groups

Social actions against groups of people, rather than individuals, suffer
from the lack of intimacy, as well as logistics. Any social action taken
against multiple characters with a magnitude of “Crowd” (50 people) or
larger gains +2 to their Resolve.

Crowds of magnitude “City” or larger cannot be addressed by a simple
roll, and instead must be done through an Encounter.

 Storyteller Timelines
---------------------

Rather than count the exact minutes and hours of effects, Exalted relies
on a more cinematic sense of time.

-   **Round**  
    Enough time for all characters present in the scene to perform at
    least one set of Actions.

-   **Scene**  
    Long enough to set out and accomplish a single, dedicated task.
    Combat from start to finish would be a scene, as would characters
    searching for clues in an old abandoned monastery. This typically
    spans minutes to hours.

-   **Session**  
    A single sitting of when Players begin and end roleplaying, spanning
    an entire night.

-   **Story**  
    Several sessions that form a full narrative arch: from establishing
    a threat to reaching the resolution.

-   **Chronicle**  
    A complete game, encompassing all the stories relevant to a set of
    characters.

Magnitudes
----------

*Exalted* is styled in more of a cinematic, broad-sweeping style game
rather than a precise simulation war-game. Instead of detailing out
every person, time frame, or area, it will instead deal with measures of
*magnitude.*

Some Powers will declare an increase (or decrease) in a *magnitude*.
Those magnitude definitions are as follows:

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Group Magnitudes</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td>Minimum Population</td>
<td>Common Name</td>
<td>Military Designations</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>0</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Individual</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>10</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Party/Group</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Squad</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Fang</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>50</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Crowd</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Troop</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Scale</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>100</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Hamlet</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Company</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Talon</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>500</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Village</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Battalion</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Wing</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Town</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Regiment</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Dragon</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>6</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>10,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>City</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Army</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Legion</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>7</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>100,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Prefecture</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>8</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>1,000,000</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Province</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Time Magnitudes</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td>Name</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>0</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Second (Instant)</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Minute (Moment)</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Hour</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Day</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Week</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Month</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>6</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Season</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>7</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Year</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>8</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Decade</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>9</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Century</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Encounters
==========

Creating an Encounter
---------------------

From the intricate dance of ballroom politics, to battlefield war bands,
to the high-drama of a courtroom, an Exalt’s life will be filled with
scenes of great importance where the fate of the world hinges on
well-spoken speeches or careful deliberation.

In such moments, one or more Scenes should be dedicated to it. This
Encounter system is a *framework* intended to help Storytellers craft
dramatic scenes, and thus should be treated as guidelines rather than
firm rules.

### Goal

You have to first decide what the Goal of the scene *is*. What is it the
Players ultimately want? Sometimes it may be obvious from the context,
but many other times you may need to ask them what their ultimate goal
is. This is the first hurdle in starting an Encounter.

It is fine if the goal *changes* during the course of the Encounter,
there just needs to be something there to start with..

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Simple Goals</p>
<p>It’s perfectly fine to have simple, assumed goals. Not everything needs to have a complex or structured goal; sometimes a primal need is all a goal has to be. “Survive” is quite a popular one.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Key Issues

Once a goal has been established, identify and breakdown what stops the
Players from reaching their goals. (2-3 are suggested, and never more
than 5). Each of these obstacles are **Key Issues** that need to be
overcome before the goal can be reached.

Key Issues can truly be anything—personal or political entanglements,
terrain difficulties, or even logistics issues. So long as it fits the
theme of the scene, and is a solid, self-contained idea, it can be a Key
Issue.

Once the Key Issues have been identified, decide how many successful,
distinct, *actions* must be made to overcome the Key Issue. This is an
abstracted representation not of difficulty (that is determined by
individual rolls), but of *complexity*.

Visualizing progress is important in an encounter—and it is recommended
you keep your players in the loop that they are working towards their
Key Issue! Having a set of tokens to remove, or something as simple as
check-boxes to fill does wonders!

|                          |             |
|--------------------------|-------------|
| **Key Issue Complexity** |             |
|                          | **Actions** |
| Simple                   | 1           |
| Average                  | 3           |
| Difficult                | 5           |
| Complex                  | 7           |

### Generating Key Issues

It can help to visualize distinct challenges relating to the key issue,
such as: “Number of people to convince over to my side,” or “stages of
stealth to overcome.” However, always remember that you are setting up a
*challenge* for players to overcome, not the method for which they must
go through, and this abstracted count of actions should allow that
flexibility!

It is entirely possible for you to expect your players to talk to
individual bystanders, to inspire each one of them to raise moral of the
village, yet your Players instead craft a monument of glory—and that is
perfectly fine and encouraged! So long as each action has a narrative
weight, even if unexpected, it should be allowed!

|                       |     |
|-----------------------|-----|
| **Sample Key Issues** |     |
| 1                     |     |
| 2                     |     |
| 3                     |     |
| 4                     |     |
| 5                     |     |
| 6                     |     |
| 7                     |     |
| 8                     |     |
| 9                     |     |
| 10                    |     |

###  Complications

Complications are anything introduced into the Scene by the Storyteller
that will distract, inhibit, or otherwise challenge the Player
Characters in their pursuit of their goals.

Complications can change, alter, or otherwise shed different light on
the Key Issues, and may even block certain methods of attaining their
goals. Perhaps a landslide occurs, burying the way to a quarter of the
city; or there is a patrol of guards cycling through the way; or even
perhaps something a simple as the chiming of the bells, denoting that a
new hour has arrived.

Complications should show up fairly regularly—there should be at least
one per Encounter. However, they should always make sense and be
telegraphed to players beforehand. If the source of a Complication is a
character, say a primary antagonist or a group of guards, this is quite
easy—players will expect them to take an action every “Round” or so.

However, when it is something more abstract, such as the passage of
time, you should signify it with something, be it the description of a
clock’s hand ticking down, or the more abstract notion of displaying a
counter filled up after actions performed. Suspense in a scene is not
necessarily surprise: if you give your Players just enough information
that there is *something* going to happen, when their Characters do not,
it is far more satisfying and impactful when it actually does.

|                          |                                                                                                                    |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Sample Complications** |                                                                                                                    |
| 1                        | There is a mutually exclusive choice the players must make. Should they choose one, the other will become cut off. |
| 2                        | The Environment is slowly, consistently deteriorating—either literally or metaphorically.                          |
| 3                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 4                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 5                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 6                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 7                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 8                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 9                        |                                                                                                                    |
| 10                       |                                                                                                                    |

 Playing an Encounter
--------------------

### Flow

An Encounter is not like a Combat Scene—the timing is fluid, and actions
do not follow a set order, depending primarily on the natural flow of
the narrative.

By default, the concept of “Round” is not necessary in an Encounter—only
in the manner that each character gets one action per “Round”--i.e. a
character cannot simply chain actions together without others getting a
chance to act.

However, if an encounter is *timed*, you may use Turn Order method as
detailed in Combat.

### Consequences

Consequences are essentially **Complications** that arise in the story
because of *Player Choices*.

The classic example is that of intimidation: if a Player Character gets
what they want through terrorizing people into townsfolk, they should
*get what they want*, but it will carry with it a price. The townsfolk
will find themselves hostile, cowed, or scared of the Players, and be
less friendly and forthcoming with information.

Essentially, an Encounter should never remain *static*, and should
change and update with every character’s action. Think of it like a
shifting scene with branching paths—sometimes some actions will close
doors and possibilities, while others will open them up. Make sure your
Encounter is *dynamic*.

However, care should be taken with Consequences: they should never feel
like a *punishment*. Your job is to keep your Players on their toes, not
to discourage them from taking unique and interesting ways to solve a
problem. This is a situation where a little bit goes a long way: only
introduce a mechanically-effecting consequence when it truly matters to
change the scene.

### Altering/Adding Goals

During the Encounter, the Players may decide they want to alter the
ultimate goal—perhaps they have decided to push further, or have found
an alternate goal they prefer.

In both cases, the Storyteller should add an additional Key Issue to
encapsulate this difference. They may decide to drop a separate existing
Key Issue if the altered goal no longer applies.

### Antagonist Goals

Antagonists are operating on their own goal during the scene, and have
their own Key Issues that they must Gather Influence upon.

Typically, the Antagonist’s Goal and Goals and Key Issues are directly
related to the Party’s—whether in direct opposition, or competing to get
there first. For convenience sake, these are referred to as the “the
same” Key Issue.

However, antagonists having the same Key Issue is not a
*requirement*—they may be working on a separate Goal for the scene, and
they have tangential or completely unrelated Key Issues. Typically,
these start out as hidden to the Party.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Abstract Antagonists</strong></p>
<p>It is easy to recognize an antagonist when it is an individual. However, Antagonists can be anything—from mobs of people to an avalanche to <em>Time itself</em> closing off a Key Issue.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Sabotaging Progress

The Antagonist and Party’s Progress tracks are independent of each
other, and can be thought of more as a “race” rather than anything.
However, just like in a race, participants can *sabotage* the other’s
progress.

When taking an action, a Player can apply one of their actions to
removing the progress of an antagonist by one action. Or, they may
attempt to wrest control over a completed Key Issue piece by piece—the
latter of which often requires one action greater than

Control may be taken away if a different side gains more Influence than
the previous owner, either by decreasing it through sabotage or
reinforcing their own claim.

In order to wrest control over a completed Key Issue, you must take 1
*additional* action more than what would be normally required. So for an
Average (3) complexity issue, you would have to make a total of (4)
actions.

### Characters on the Defense

Convincing important characters, particularly Player Characters, is a
single Key Issue with a complexity equal to their Resolve + intimacy
bonuses, rather than a simple roll.

This can be anything from forcing the character to see their point on an
important fact, charming them, lying to them, or even instilling a
particular Intimacy.

A successful application does not *force* the character to do
anything—this isn’t unnatural influence, simply convincing speech. But
they should take this new idea as part of their decision process. As
well, after the idea impacts their life negatively once, they may
reconsider and reject it.

As always, Players reserve the right to declare something as
Unacceptable influence, if they believe it violates their character or
ideas. Typically they should reference one of their Intimacies,
backstory, or Facts when doing so.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>It’s Hard to Convince Player Characters</strong></p>
<p>Ultimately, it’s up to the Player whether or not their character is convinced by something. As a Storyteller, you have control over all aspects of the world, and how difficult each action is; the one thing that you don’t have control over is what Player Characters think and do—you should only suggest it to the Player, not force it upon them. Even powerful effects, such as “Theft of Memory,” should be used with caution.</p>
<p>Ultimately, this is a story about the <em>Player Characters</em> and their actions, not about Non-Playable characters and your world!</p>
<p>Social-focused Antagonists should be primarily represented by their actions and charm against other NPC’s. While they should not shy away from trying to charm the Player Characters, don’t expect them to succeed!</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Encounter End

The Encounter ends the same Round that all Key Issues become
*controlled*—though they do not need to be under control all by the same
*side.*

If a Goal’s Key Issues are completely controlled by one side, they will
achieve their Goal.

A Goal with split Key Issue control will find they have a *partial*
victory—they do not get the full Goal they wanted, but they do not get
nothing at all.

When weighing a Partial Victory, the Storyteller should lean heavily
into the uncontrolled Key Issues—why will this bring trouble to them?
Perhaps they get what they want, but only at a certain cost?

### Final Argument

Typically, the Encounter is wrapped up with a *Final Argument*, where a
chosen Player or Storyteller summarizes what has happened in the
Encounter, rolling it together and pointedly delivering as a capstone.
This can take the form of a grand in character speech, addressing the
crowds.

Preferably, Encounters do not end with a roll. The work has been put in
already, there is no *need* for one.

But in the cases when a roll feels In those cases, this final roll
carries no risk of failure with it: after all, all of the ground work
has been laid for the outcome already. Rather, it is a measure of *how*
successful the characters will be in their endeavor. A failure would
just represent not being able to push their success further—or at worst,
a request to do something in return.

Example Encounters
------------------

### Example 1: The Trade Prince

On the southern shores of the Inland Sea party decides that they will
need a full caravan to traverse the Burning Sands. There is a local
Trade-Prince whom they think they can convince to finance and supply
them this caravan.

#### Goal

Convince the Trade-Prince to fund their expedition.

#### Key Issues

The Storyteller decides there are 3 Key Issues preventing the
Trade-Prince from funding the caravan:

1.  **Monetary concerns  
    *(Simple—1)***

    Understandably, the Trade-Prince will need to be convinced it is
    worth his while to dedicate so many resources to this goal.

<!-- -->

1.  **Antagonistic Sycophants  
    (*Average—3*)**

    The Trade-Prince has surrounded himself with sycophants, who deeply
    despise any perceived change to their position. The Party must
    silence their influence.

2.  **Fear of the Immaculate Order Retribution  
    (*Difficult—5*)** ***(Hidden)***

    Through the party’s past actions, the Trade-Prince has secretly
    caught on that they are Anathema. He does not personally care, but
    he will need a way to make sure that the Immaculate Order will not
    find out about this deal—or at least be convinced of this fact.

#### Complications

Hidden Key Issue. The Storyteller will not immediately indicate that the
Immaculate Order has a presence in the scene, only dropping hints along
the way to signal that its influence is here.

###  Example 2: Escape

They were on a simple *reconnaissance* mission: infiltrate the Guild’s
meeting, and discover their end goal. They didn’t realize that a Slave
Trader was part of the meeting, nor that their Zenith caste would have
such a violent reaction upon discovering this fact.

Now, they need to escape before the entire city is called down upon
them.

#### Goal

Escape from the Guild Hall.

#### Key Issues

1.  **Physically Escape (silently)  
    (*Average—3)***

    They will need to traverse the complicated and guarded corridors of
    the guild hall.

<!-- -->

1.  **Remove Presence  
    *(Difficult—5) (optional)***

    If they are to get their plans back on track, they will need to
    confuse people who saw them into misremembering what happened, and
    remove any indications that they were here tonight.

2.  **Calm Rampaging Ally  
    *(Difficult—5)***

    Their Zenith cast ally is currently limit breaking, seeking to
    destroy the slaver’s guild and free all of the ‘merchandise’ with
    their sheer force of will. They need to be either appeased or forced
    to take their mission in a better way.

#### Complications

This is a timed scene, with actual defined, structured rounds. The
Storyteller has decided that on Round 3, the guards will alert the guild
hall.

On Round 5, more guards and innocent bystanders will fill the hall,
increasing the difficulty of all stealth rolls.

On Round 7, the gates will be closed, presumably forcing a failure of
the scene.

Combat
======

The Time of Tumult is one of great conflict, and the Exalted that live
through it will invariably find themselves in armed conflict, weilding
their great weapons and powers of destruction.

The Combat Round
----------------

Combat is split into distinct Rounds, where each character has a chance
to take one Action, such as Attacking, using a Charm, or any other
maneuver that they might wish to perform. Any powers that take up a full
action are denoted as **Simple** Powers.

On their turn, a character is able to perform two actions, though only
one can be a **Strike** by default. (e.g. a single **Maneuver** and
**Strike,** or **two Maneuvers**.) The Actions may be performed in any
order the Player desires.

There are some charms or powers that may grant a bonus action. **There
is a hard limit of 3 total actions per turn**, no combination of Powers
or effects can exceed that limit. Supplemental Powers that grant a
maneuver’s *effects* through do not count to that limit. (e.g. If a
Charm that supplements a successful Strike with *knockback*.)

If a character were to have a Charm that grants another Movement action
and a Charm that allows another Strike action, they would have to choose
whether or not to take an action such as: “Move, Move, Strike” or
“Strike, Move, Strike”, but “Move, Strike, Move, Strike” would break the
action limit.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Combined Actions</p>
<p>Often, the actions of a character will be against a single target. While, mechanically, these are two different actions, they do not need to be described as such. For example, if a character performs a Brawl Strike and then Holds a foe, it can easily be described as “I lash forward, grappling them down, hitting them onto the floor.” Each aspect would still require the roll to see if it was successful, but they are handled by the same description.</p>
<p>If there is a Stunt, apply the benefits to both rolls.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Turn Order

The Storyteller starts combat by selecting the first side and character
to act. Often, this will depend on the context leading up to the scene,
such as one side ambushing the other. However, if it is ever unclear,
simply perform a relevant Action Roll, with the character that rolls
highest going first. Any ties should be determined by another roll. (If
it continues to be a tie, simply flip a coin.)

If there is a roll, by default it will be (Wits + Awareness) to
represent a character’s reaction to changing environments. However, it
*need not be*. Any sort of contested roll can be used—if racing towards
the battlefield, it would be (Dexterity + Athletics), for example. Or
perhaps (Insight + Socialize) to realize that a negotiation has turned
sour.

Once the starting character has been determined, they may take their
action, and then pass the action to another on their side. This
continues until all members of a side have performed an action, at which
point it switches to a character on other side, chosen by the last
character to go.

Once all characters on both sides have performed their actions, the
round starts over with the original starting character.

### Holding Action

Any character may Hold their Action, or wait to act based on something
that happens in the battlefield. To do so, the must describe what it is
they are waiting for: they cannot *arbitrarily wait.* When the specified
event happens, they get a chance to act *before* or *after* the event,
at their discretion.

However, if the event does not occur during the round, their action is
forfeited.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Optional: Alternate Turn Orders</p>
<p>Everyone has their favorite way determining turn order, and they all have their benefits. Ultimately, while necessary to have one, the exact system of turn orders is not important.</p>
<p>Here are a few alternates:</p>
<p>1. <strong>Static</strong>: At the beginning of combat, all characters roll (1d10) and add (Athletics). Each round, characters go from highest number to lowest.</p>
<p>2. <strong>Alternating Team:</strong> The side with the highest total number of successes among all characters goes first. Each round, the team nominates which character will act for their turn.</p>
<p>3. <strong>Focus</strong>: There is no turn order, rather the turn jumps from character to character at the Storyteller’s discretion. (This is best used for small groups.)</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Zones
-----

The battlefield is split into distinct areas—inside the inn, weaving
through the trees, or across the rooftops. These areas are called
**Zones**, and characters can freely move inside, interact with, or
importantly: attack any and all within the same zone. The character is
constantly moving in the Zone, performing acrobatics, flipping off the
walls, rushing from point to point—they do not simply hole up in a
single spot waiting to be hit..

Zones should be split up logically based on the terrain, though if the
Storyteller may choose to chop up a zone into smaller categories if they
feel they are too large (i.e. a north and south side of a long path.)

There is no set size for a zone—they can be as large or small as needed.

### Move

Take an action to relocate between Zones. By default, this does not
require a roll. However, if there are situations such as rough terrain,
environmental effects, or if another character is restraining or
otherwise blockading a path, a roll will be called for.

### Attacking between Zones

Ranged weapons, such as bows, have the option to attack cross zone lines
as though they were in the same zone. However, zone boundaries often are
marked by some sort of barrier, such as walls, which *would still*
impede an attack.

 Maneuvers
---------

A Maneuver is any action the character performs to gain advantage over
the scene—be it to test the stance of their enemies, analyze the
battlefield for strategic advantage, or to intimidate your foes through
physical prowess.

Simple Charms, Powers, and other effects that do not deal damage are
considered to be a Maneuver.

The Player describes any action that would grant them tactical
advantage, and then rolls the appropriate \[Att + Abi\] dice pool if one
is called for.

Remember, Exalted follows the dynamic and cinematic model—heroes should
be leaping across narrow banisters, dancing steel in testing feints, and
channelling their inner might during combat. Nearly any action, if
described well enough, can grant a bonus to combat.

The one hard and fast rule of a Maneuver is that it **cannot deal
damage—**that is a Strike. Knocking back a character through a wall,
shattering the wall is a Maneuver. Knocking back a character into a
wall, shattering their bones, is a Strike. (Knocking them back into the
wall, breaking it *and* shattering their bones would be a Combined
Manuever Strike, taking 2 Actions).

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>On Hit</p>
<p>Many combat powers will call for something to happen “on hit”. If not specifically calling out a Strike, this can also include Maneuvers that target the specified Difficulty involving physical contact between the two characters/their weapons. For example, knocking back a character with a kick.(or specified difficulty, such as Block and Evasion).</p>
<p>If there is no specified Difficulty, use Defense.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Build Power

The Action “Build Power” is considered a Maneuver in combat. Typically
it will focus on gaining the tactical edge over the scene—studying
movements of the foes, centering yourself, or making feinting moves.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>What can’t I do?</p>
<p>Maneuvers are simply normal actions taken in combat, and so follow the same rule: “Does this make sense?” There are few hard limits imposed, rather relying on the judgement of the Storyteller and fellow players for the tone of the setting.</p>
<p>Can you knock back an enemy on a wave of sound by performing an epic ballad on your essence guitar? (Charismsa + Performance) Whether or not this is something you want in your game is your choice.</p>
<p>During combat, Physical Attributes and Martial Abilities can do the most, rarely needing an explanation or stunt to justify their actions.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Sample Maneuver Effects</strong></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Name</td>
<td>Difficulty</td>
<td>Description</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Knockback /</p>
<p>Pull /</p></td>
<td>Block</td>
<td>Moves the target up to one Zone.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Hold/</p>
<p>Grapple/</p>
<p>Restrain</p></td>
<td>Evasion</td>
<td>Note the number of Successes rolled. The target must make a roll against that number as a difficulty, or else be unable to move.<br />
This lasts until your next action.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Keep Pace/</p>
<p>Reactionary Move</p></td>
<td>Evasion</td>
<td>When the target takes a Move Action, reflexively move one Zone. This does not cost an action.<br />
This lasts until your next action.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Distract /</p>
<p>Intimidate / Stun</p></td>
<td>Resolve</td>
<td>You apply a Minor disadvantage on another character. If you exceed their Resolve by +3, this becomes a Moderate Disadvantage.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Recover</td>
<td>(3 / 5)</td>
<td>Reduce all Disadvantages by (1 / 2) levels. (e.g. for 3, remove Minor Disadvantages and turn Moderate into Minor.)</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Smash Scenery</td>
<td>Based on Scenery</td>
<td>Change the scenery, such as by collapsing a pillar.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Seek Cover/</p>
<p>Destroy Cover</p></td>
<td>Based on Scenery</td>
<td>Attempt to find cover, granting yourself Minor/Moderate Defense Advantage.<br />
You may also destroy other’s cover Advantage.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Defend Other</td>
<td>(None)</td>
<td>Select a character in the same Zone as you. Attacks that target them must exceed your Block or their Defense, whichever is higher. They must remain in the same Zone.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Disarm</td>
<td>Block</td>
<td>Knock a weapon out of a hand, which cannot be reclaimed for a Round.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Expose/target Weakness</td>
<td>(3)</td>
<td><p>The next attack against an opponent is either their Block or Evasion, instead of their Defense.</p>
<p>You may explicitly choose to gift this to another character to their advantage.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Strike
------

If you truly wish to kill your opponent, you may do so by striking at
them with a dangerous attack.

First, roll the (Attribute + Ability) roll of the attack adding dice
from Accuracy bonus gained from your weapon or charms. If the roll
exceeds the Defense (or targeted value) of the enemy, you successfully
Strike them.

Without the use of a Power or stunt, Striking is restricted to the
Physical Attributes (Strength, Dexterity) and the Martial Abilities,
typically Archery, Brawl, Melee, or Thrown.

### Damage

**Base Damage**, by default, is the highest of (Strength, Dexterity, or
Essence Level), as a character can pierce the defenses of their opponent
through brute force, precision strikes, or sheer force of will if the
other two do not apply.

The selection of Martial Arts may change or alter what source of damage
can be used—a light weapon may require Dexterity, or a heavy weapon
Strength. A more obscure style may wield Charisma as the damaging
attribute.

However, no matter the source, or restriction, **Essence** remains the
minimum for Base Damage.

The target’s health lost is the Base Damage, adding any bonus from
weapons or powers, and then subtracting any defensive bonuses. The
damage a character *takes* can be reduced all the way to 0—though this
is still considered a hit.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Strike Order Resolution.</p>
<p>A Strike consists of two parts—the Accuracy roll, and the Damage resolution. Each time, the order favors the defender over the attacker.</p>
<p>Supplemental Powers that enhance damage <strong>do not</strong> need to be declared until after the Accuracy roll is determined—if the attack misses, <strong>don’t waste motes on a failed attack.</strong></p>
<p>Use the flow of the table to determine your order, primarily. <em>What is important is fun, not fiddly timing rules.</em> This is just here to resolve disagreements.</p>
<ol type="1">
<li><p>Attacker rolls their Accuracy, with all Accuracy-boosting Powers.</p></li>
</ol>
<ol start="33" type="1">
<li><p>Defender responds with their Static Value and any defense-boosting Powers.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>Player(s)</strong> may decide to activate their Excellency—either offensively or Defensively.</p></li>
<li><p>If the Attack exceeds the final defense value, it hits.</p></li>
<li><p>The Attacker declares any supplemental Damage boosting Powers.</p></li>
<li><p>The Defender decalres any supplemental Damage reducing Powers.</p></li>
<li><p>The final damage is calculated, then Health is removed.</p></li>
</ol></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Defeat
------

Characters who are knocked out of battle are typically not dead—they are
simply at the mercy of the opposing characters. Though, the Storyteller
should rightfully note the effects of various types of damages used,
such as slashing or piercing, and indicate that minor characters may
perish without active action.

Characters rarely fight to the death—or even to the point of being
knocked. Surrender, escape, or other options will become the pressing
concern of any NPC who gets at or below **5 Health.** They gain an
Intimacy of “survival” at this point.

Player characters who are defeated gain **1 Limit** from the
humiliation, regardless of if they are in mortal danger or not.

### <span class="smallcaps">Healing and Recovery</span>

Health lost in combat is regained much in the same way motes are:
through rest and relaxation. **15 Points** of Health are regained after
a full night’s rest, or **2 points** per hour if it is interrupted.

### Death and Dying

A dramatic moment of death is a perfect send-off and ending for one of
the members of the Exalted. However, not all defeats are a dramatic
moment—sometime it is not time for a character to depart from the story.

The Player is the sole arbiter of the their character’s fate. If it is
not the time for their character’s story to end, that death becomes
cheated. Somehow, the defy the monumental odds, crawling days through
pain and anguish that none other have suffered for help.

But cheating death comes at a cost. The character will be invariably
changed from their experience. There will be scars of their
encounter—whether it is physical, mental, or social. The Player should
work with the Storyteller to come up with a consequence from the
implausible survival.

Suggestions are:

-   A dramatic change in Intimacies—such as the addition of (fear)
    related to the event.

-   A loss of an appropriate merit, such as an Ally who sacrificed
    themselves to save the character.

-   Physical reminders of the lost battles, such as scars.

-   Recurring nightmares, where the character is forced to relive the
    moment of their escaped death.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Antagonist Defeat</p>
<p>There will be times when an antagonist—intended to be recurring—is defeated, or otherwise dramatically halted.</p>
<p>These Characters, like Player Characters, have the ability to escape certain defeat if it best suits the plot. However, they should <em>also</em> suffer the same consequences for doing so.</p>
<p>Escaping death should never be cheap, and should not be done too many times. Let your Players have victories.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The Environment
---------------

The Environment itself can be a “character” involved in combat, as a way
to simulate things ranging from earthquakes to the turning of the night,
to things such as the advancement of a firestorm raging through a city.

The Environment is generally impervious to any attacks thrown at it (You
may throw water at a fire to repel its advances, but typically not
pierce it with arrows), and does not have a mind of its own to
coordinate.

If an Environmental “attack” is all encompassing in a Zone and
predictable, such as rumbling earth, a landslide, falling a great
distance, or a burning flame, there is *no need* to make an Attack roll.
It is assumed to hit and deal damage.

|                          |     |
|--------------------------|-----|
| **Environmental Damage** |     |
| Light                    | 3   |
| Medium                   | 5   |
| Heavy                    | 7   |
| Oppressive               | 9   |

Minor Characters
----------------

Minor Characters, especially those that cannot alone damage their foes
will naturally fall into **Groups**.

Groups act as a single character, but gain the following bonus based on
their **Group Magnitude:**

-   Add 5 Health for every Magnitude Scale increment.

-   Add 1 Damage, 1 Accuracy, and +1 Dice on an action for every
    Magnitude Scale increment

Equipment
---------

### Armor

Wearing armor is a tradeoff in Exalted – you gain additional Block or
Evasion, and thus have a higher total Defense, but at the cost of
revealing a potential weakness to be exploited later on.

-   **Light** armors are those that have been tailor made to aid in
    flexible movement—above and beyond what normal clothes will do.
    Typically, light armors will consisted of padded gloves, tightly
    wound fabrics, and other cushions to assist in acrobatic movements.

-   **Medium** and **Heavy** armors provide increasing Block protection,
    but at the cost of more limited mobility. Most traditional armors,
    such as breastplates, chain shirts, and articulated plate fit into
    the Medium or Heavy Category

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Armor</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Block Modifier</strong></p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Evasion Modifier</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>No Armor</td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>+0</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>+0</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Light</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td>-1</td>
<td>+1</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Medium</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>+1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-1</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Heavy</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>+2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>-2</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Weapons

Weapons are built using Tags, each with an individual cost in points. No
individual tag may be applied to a weapon or armor more than once.

There are some tags with levels (e.g. Accurate (I) and Accurate (II)).
They are considered the same tag, and so cannot be applied to the same
weapon.

#### Mundane *Weapon Tags*

A standard mundane weapon starts with **3 Points** in order to craft the
weapon with a set amount of Tags.

Tags will often have some *requirements* associated with them. A weapon
cannot have conflicting requirements.

|                         |            |                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Mundane Weapon Tags** |            |                                                                                  |
| **Name**                | **Points** | **Description**                                                                  |
| Accurate (I/II/III/IV)  | (1/2/3/4)  | Gain +1/2/3/4 bonus to Accuracy.                                                 |
| Damaging (I/II/III/IV)  | (1/2/3/4)  | Gain +1/2/3/4 to weapon damage.                                                  |
| Ranged                  | 1          | You may attack across 1 Zone boundary.                                           |
| Long-Ranged             | 3          | You may attack across 2 Zone boundaries.                                         |
| Grappling               | 1          | The Accuracy of the weapon is added to any attempts to make a Restrain Maneuver. |

#### Special Tags

Special weapons, Powers or Martial Arts will grant specific tags to be
used when building a weapon. These are not available for purchase
normally.

|                         |            |                                                                                                                                              |
|-------------------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Special Weapon Tags** |            |                                                                                                                                              |
| **Name**                | **Points** | **Description**                                                                                                                              |
| Natural                 | 2          | The weapon cannot be disarmed.                                                                                                               |
| Unique Ability          | 3          | Use a specific, non-Martial Attribute/Ability Combo with this weapon. (E.g. Charisma + Performance). The damaging attribute is also changed. |

Elsewhere
---------

The mechanisms of reality are flawed. Items, particularly those not paid
attention to, have a tendency to reappear and move to alternate
locations. Mortals will often attribute this forgetfulness, or not
recognize the incongruity at all, when in reality it is the tireless
motions of the Loom taking shortcuts.

Exalts, long ago, learned how to quietly and easily exploit this—simply
though sleight of hand, they can store their physical items in places
and not feel the weight nor brunt of the equipment. It is not unusual
for an Exalt to suddenly pull out a large daiklaive from little more
than a handbag’s opening.

Depositing or retrieving equipment from Elsewhere takes an entire
Action.

Sidereals have labeled this flaw as “Elsewhere,” since the items are
neither *here* nor *there*, but simply somewhere…else. Certainly it is
something that needs to be fixed. Eventually. Preferably by someone
else.

Elsewhere is not all-powerful. The Exalt must reasonably be able to
carry the items in the first place, and it must not be something that
has a particularly close and important tie to reality. For example:
living creatures cannot be kept in Elsewhere, as their mind and soul has
far too great of self-awareness to be forgotten by reality.

As well, while time does not affect items *inside* of Elsewhere, the
moment it is pulled out reality will quickly reassert itself. Food would
rot within seconds, and we iron rust within a blink of an eye.

Items stored in Elsewhere of a dead Exalt will eventually reassert
themselves into reality—often by finding themselves in nearby containers
that may not have existed until needed for this precise purpose.

Projects
========

From waging a campaign to spreading a mercantile Guild to infiltrating
and converting a spy network, to building a grand Manse, sometimes the
Exalted want to do long-reaching, large-scale endeavors that are best
handled through a broad-stroking brush.

Projects represent what happens during **downtime** to explain what
characters are doing when the heat of action is not fully upon them. As
such, performing Projects should typically happen only during points of
**time skips**, or **between Stories.**

A scene of Projects will often follow a montage structure—Choose a
Player, let them describe what they are spending their points on, then
ask for a couple of small images of what happens during the project,
leading up to the inevitable Obstruction that will need to be dealt
with.

**Example Projects:**

-   Arming Militia

-   Repairing a burned down village

-   Establishing a spy network

-   Repairing a manse

-   Establishing trade

-   Creating a manse

Resources
---------

Projects require a certain number of **Resources (RES)** to complete.
This resource is a generalized representation of everything from labor,
physical materials, knowledge, and the like that can be applied to the
Project. Once applied to the project, RES is permanently consumed—while
the labor force may still be there, perhaps payment toward them ran dry,
or they can no longer delay tending to their crops.

Much like XP, The Storyteller should periodically award RES to the
players. However, unlike XP, RES should be more based on events within
the campaign, such as recovering materials from a lost manse, gaining
the workforce of a thankful village, etc.

**1 Resource** is roughly equivalent to:

-   A highly-successful Merchant route.

-   An entire village’s worth of manpower for a month.

-   A favor from a very powerful person.

Due to the generalized nature of Projects, the source of Resource does
not always match the application of them. It is simply assumed that
conversion of Resources to their applicable form is handled
“off-screen”: recovered gems could grease the pockets of a noble,
allowing for backroom deals that allow military training of civilians,
for example. In general, this is all *assumed* to have happened, and
does not need attention drawn to it.

### Pooling Resources

Players may freely transfer and give RES to other characters, should
they so choose, but only one character will gain the benefits of the
Project.

### Keystone Resource

Larger and more ambitious projects will require certain Keystone to
complete. This can range from needing a General to command an army to
requiring a significant amount of *magical materials,* such as
Orichalcum or Moonsilver.

Keystone Resources are things that Players must *seek out.* Typically,
this is done by dropping out of the “montage” section of Projects, and
embracing a full scene involving the Exalt seeking out, resolving, and
interacting with their desired Keystone.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Using Keystones as Story Generation</p>
<p>Keystones are an excellent way to gauge what Players care about, and what they feel is central to care about—you never need a Keystone for a minor change to the world or minor merit for the character.</p>
<p>Therefore, it’s not unreasonable to ask players early what sort of Keystone they are seeking, and then make it a plot of a <strong>Story,</strong> giving them the requested Keystone when certain criteria have been met—when they have recruited their General, changed the geomancy of an area, or introduced their assassin network into a new location.</p>
<p>However, if this takes more than a Session, you should let the Player spend their resources and use their merit/change upon the world while searching for the Keystone—though perhaps at a bit of a disadvantage.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The Right Tool for the Job
--------------------------

When you start a project, you will need to detail which **Primary
Ability** will be used in the Project. Any Project using the Natural
Abilities should follow rules of common sense: If you are training
troops to be archers, you should be using Archery or Command. If you are
creating a Spy network, use Subterfuge.

### Gaining/Improving Merits

**Projects** can be a way for characters to gain or improve Merits. For
example, the character might decide to recruit *Followers*, establish a
network of *Contacts*, or make an *Artifact*.

The level of the Merit Improved is equal to the **Scale** of the
Project.

If a character is *improving* a Merit to a higher rating, they pay the
*difference* in RES, Keystones, and time between the ratings. For
example, improving *Contacts* from Rating 1 to Rating 2 would be one
Resource.

### Making Changes to the World

From raising walls to creating vast trade networks, Projects can be used
to alter the world around the Exalt to their will (and benefit.)

The Magnitude of the change determines the base Resource and Keystone
cost: as determined by the population and/or terrain size affected.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Projects</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Scale</td>
<td><strong>Project Affects Population/Terrain</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>1</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Village</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>2</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Town</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>City</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Prefecture</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>Province</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Project Resistance

When making a change on the world, sometimes the world and its
inhabitants pushes back. If you are attempting to muster a great army
while in the middle of hostile territory, it certainly will take much
greater care and effort to do so!

If the change is **Unnatural**, or **Significantly opposed**, increase
the Scale by **+1**. This would encompass such oddities such as advanced
technology that is self-maintained or changing a ragtag set of farmers
with no military knowledge into an organized army within a month. Or
trying to establish a Spy network in a network loyal to an Exalt without
them knowing, or attempting to reclaim land from hostile places such as
the Wyld.

If the change is clearly **Supernatural** in nature or **Overwhelmingly
opposed**, such as making a well that perpetually draws fresh water from
the middle of the desert, increase the Scale of the project by **(+2)**.
Resistance of this magnitude would be opposed by extreme forces, such as
Gods, or networks of Exalts, such as the Bronze Faction of Sidereals.

### 

###  Repairing, Altering, or Destroying Projects

Some Projects focus on altering an existing aspect of the world—such as
repairing a great Manse or taking an existing network of people and
converting them to work for you, or completely eradicating it
altogether.

Since much of the work has been done already, these types of Projects
will be *reduced in scale*, depending on the severity of the repairs or
changes needed to be made.

Destruction of a Projects focuses more on doing so *safely*, and in a
controlled manner.

-   **Minor** (-2 to Scale). The repairs and/or changes needed to be
    made are significant enough to warrant attention, but will not
    consume the Character endlessly.

-   **Major** (-1 to Scale). There is significant damage or resistance
    to your changes.

-   **Monumental** (-0 to Scale). It would be the same amount of effort
    to repair and or alter the Project as it would be to create a new
    one from the ground up.

This cannot decrease the Scale below 1.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Altering Owned Projects</strong></p>
<p>You can’t alter a Project if someone else <em>currently</em> owns it. You would first have to depose the current leader of a Spy Network and <em>then</em> take over the leaderless network as your own.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

There’s a Size 3 Assassin network the Eclipse Caste has recently become
the leader of. Being a pacifist, he wants them to stop killing and
convert into simply a network of Spys. There is enough internal
resistance to this command that he must make a Minor Alteration Project
(*Base 3, -2) and so it becomes a Scale 1 Project.*

### 

 Obstruction Rolls
-----------------

All projects of **Scale 1+**, will have an Obstruction Roll, to
represent any sort of random events and/or problems that will inevitably
show up during the course of your Project.

The Obstruction Roll is a **Luck Die** (1d10), to which they add their
(Ability) Score to. Then, they subtract the Project Scale to get the
final result of the roll:

> **1d10 + (Ability Rating) - (Scale/Merit Level)**
>
> Once the Player knows the scale of their Obstruction, they should
> describe what the result is, and how their character deals with the
> results.
>
> If desired, the Player may request ideas from the Storyteller or other
> players.
>
> Obstructions should never prevent the Player from completing a
> project—even a Major Problem. The Resources and Keystones have been
> spent. However, they can certainly inconvenience the Character, change
> the outcome unexpectedly, or make the character question if they are
> on the right path.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Multiple Projects</strong></p>
<p>If a character has multiple projects proceeding, only roll for Obstructions for the <strong>two</strong> most impactful Projects of that character, to speed things up.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>Obstructions</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>12+</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Critical Success:</strong> Everything has seemingly clicked into place, providing an extra benefit. You increase the Merit by 1 additional dot rating, up to 3.</p>
<p>If this is not possible, or the Merit is already at rank 3, you may reclaim 1 Resource from the project.</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>10-11</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Success:</strong> Everything is proceeding exactly as planned. Describe your character in full control, excelling at what they do best.</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>6-9</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>An <strong>Alteration</strong> has developed and the Exalt's direct attention is requested. Describe how the project is changed—the end goal remains the same.</p>
<p>Alterations are neither positive or negative—they are simply something <em>unexpected</em>.</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><blockquote>
<p>4-5</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p>A <strong>Problem</strong> happens. Something requires the character’s direct attention, and will put great strain on them.</p>
<p>The character will become stressed, lose sleep, or have some other temporary impact to their wellbeing in order to overcome this difficulty.</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><blockquote>
<p>0-3</p>
</blockquote></td>
<td><blockquote>
<p><strong>Major Problem</strong>: The project is in <em>dire straits</em>, and requires some <em>sacrifice</em> on the part of the Character, or else the project will fail, and half of the invested Resources will be lost.</p>
</blockquote></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Alteration 

Oddities are events that, while unexpected, are not directly harmful to
the completion of the project. They could potentially be a boon, even,
but require direct attention of the Exalt to resolve.

-   Beastmen have heard of your militia, and wish to join. Current
    members are uneasy and do not wish them to without your input.

-   Your cult desires a clarification on one of your rules: currently
    one of the members is in violation of the technical aspects of the
    law, but not the spirit. What is the precedent that you wish to set?

-   The magical materials to create your artifact were slightly flawed,
    leading to a variance in essence flow. It might lead to a new and
    unintended strange power.

### Problems

Problems, if not dealt with, would set back the Project.

-   A spy has not returned on time. You know they are not simply late.

-   Loss of a minor cache of resources. A spirit has started to disrupt
    the village.

-   An explosion rocked your campsite.

-   Supply lines are being disrupted.

-   Rumors of the Wyld hunt are near your border, but are unproven.

### Major Problem

A Major Problem will derail the entire project if not dealt with.

-   Your workers have split into two different groups, on the brink of a
    civil war.

-   There seems to be an element inside your organization actively and
    effectively disrupting your society.

-   One of the magical materials was corrupted with Vitriol, and has
    started to speak the demon-tongue of Malfeas.
